docs/tutorials_examples/tutorial_heat_pump.rst, before:

Heat pump tutorial
------------------

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:
    :backlinks: top

Task
^^^^

This tutorial introduces you in how to model a heat pump in TESPy. You can see
the plants topology in the figure. Also, you will find a fully working model in
the last chapter of this tutorial.

.. figure:: api/_images/tutorial_heat_pump.svg
    :align: center

    Figure: Topology of the heat pump.

The main purpose of the heat pump is to deliver heat e.g. for the consumers of
a heating system. Thus, the heat pump's parameters will be set in a way, which
supports this target.
Generally, if systems are getting more complex, it is highly recommended to set
up your plant in incremental steps. This tutorial divides the plant in three
sections: The consumer part, the valve and the evaporator and the compressor as
last element. Each new section will be appended to the existing ones.


Set up a Network
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to simulate our heat pump we have to create an instance of the
tespy.network class. The network is the main container of the model and will be
required in all following sections.
First, it is necessary to specify a list of the fluids used in the plant. In
this example we will work with water (H\ :sub:`2`\O) and ammonia
(NH\ :sub:`3`\). Water is used for the cold side of the heat exchanger, for the
consumer and for the hot side of the environmental temperature. Ammonia is used
as coolant within the heat pump circuit. If you don’t specify the unit system,
the variables are set to SI-Units.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.networks import network

    nw = network(fluids=['water', 'NH3'],
                 T_unit='C', p_unit='bar', h_unit='kJ / kg', m_unit='kg / s')

We will use °C, bar and kJ/kg as units for temperature and enthalpy.

Modeling the heat pump: Consumer system
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Components
++++++++++

We will start with the consumer as the plant will be designed to deliver a
specific heat flow. From figure 1 you can determine the components of the
consumer system: condenser, pump and the consumer (heat-exchanger-simple).
Additionally we need a source and a sink for the consumer and the heat pump
circuit respectively. We will import all necessary components already in the
first step, so the imports will not need further adjustment

We label the sink for the coolant "valve", as for our next calculation the
valve (labeled "valve") will be attached there. In this way, the fluid
properties can be initialised by .csv at the interface-connection, too.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.components import (source, sink, cycle_closer,
                                  valve, drum, pump, compressor,
                                  condenser, heat_exchanger_simple,
                                  heat_exchanger)

    # sources & sinks

    c_in = source('coolant in')
    cons_closer = cycle_closer('consumer cycle closer')

    va = sink('valve')

    # consumer system

    cd = condenser('condenser')
    rp = pump('recirculation pump')
    cons = heat_exchanger_simple('consumer'))

Connections
+++++++++++

In the next steps we will connect the components in order to form a network.
Every connection requires the source, the source id, the target and the target
id as arguments: the source is the component from which the connection
originates, the source id is the outlet id of that component. This applies
analogously to the target. To find all inlet and outlet ids of a component look
up the class documentation.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.connections import connection

    # consumer system

    c_in_cd = connection(c_in, 'out1', cd, 'in1')

    close_rp = connection(cons_closer, 'out1', rp, 'in1')
    rp_cd = connection(rp, 'out1', cd, 'in2')
    cd_cons = connection(cd, 'out2', cons, 'in1')
    cons_close = connection(cons, 'out1', cons_closer, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(c_in_cd, close_rp, rp_cd, cd_cons, cons_close)

    # connection condenser - evaporator system

    cd_va = connection(cd, 'out1', va, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(cd_va)

.. note::

    Instead of just connecting the consumers outlet to the pumps inlet, we must
    to make use of at least one auxiliary component: Closing a cycle without
    further adjustments will always result in a linear dependency in the fluid
    and the mass flow equations. We therefore need to cut open the cycle. The
    :py:class`tespy.components.basics.cycle_closer` component makes sure, the
    fluid properties pressure and enthalpy are identical at the inlet and the
    outlet. A different solution to this problem, is adding a merge and a
    splitter at some point of your network and connect the second inlet/outlet
    to a source/sink. This causes residual mass flow and residual fluids to
    emerge/drain there. The cycle closer will give out a warning, if the mass
    flow or the fluid composition at its outlet are different to those at its
    inlet.

Parametrization
+++++++++++++++

For the condenser we set pressure ratios on hot and cold side and additionally
we set a value for the upper terminal temperature difference as design
parameter and the heat transfer coefficient as offdesign parameter. The
consumer will have a pressure ratio, too. Further we set the isentropic
efficiency for the pump, the offdesign efficiency is calculated with a
characteristic function. Thus, we set the efficiency as design parameter and
the characteristic function as offdesign parameter. In offdesign calculation
the consumer's pressure ratio will be a function of the mass flow, thus as
offdesign parameter we select zeta. The most important parameter is the
consumers heat demand. We marked this setting as key parameter.

.. code-block:: python

    cd.set_attr(pr1=0.99, pr2=0.99, ttd_u=5, design=['pr2', 'ttd_u'],
                offdesign=['zeta2', 'kA'])
    rp.set_attr(eta_s=0.8, design=['eta_s'], offdesign=['eta_s_char'])
    cons.set_attr(pr=0.99, design=['pr'], offdesign=['zeta'])

.. note::

    In TESPy there are two different types of calculations: design point and
    offdesign calculation. All parameters specified in the design attribute of
    a component or connection, will be unset in a offdesign calculation, all
    parameters specified in the offdesign attribute of a component or
    connection will be set for the offdesign calculation. The value for these
    parameters is the value derived from the design-calculation.

    Generally, the design calculation is used for designing your system in the
    way you want it to look like. This means, that you might want to specify a
    design point isentropic efficiency, pressure loss or terminal temperature
    difference. After you have designed your system, you are able to make
    offdesign calculations with TESPy. The offdesign calculation is used to
    predict the system's behavior at different points of operation. For this
    case, this might be different ambient temperature, different feed flow
    temperature, or partial load.

In order to calculate this network further parametrization is necessary, as e.
g. the fluids are not determined yet: At the hot inlet of the condenser we
define the temperature and the fluid vector. In order to fully determine the
fluid's state at this point, an information on the pressure is required. This
is achieved by setting the terminal temperature difference (see above). The
same needs to be done for the consumer cycle. We suggest to set the parameters
at the pump's inlet. On top, we assume that the consumer requires a constant
inlet temperature.

The last step is to define the fluid's state after the consumer. This is
automatically performed by the :py:class:`tespy.components.basics.cycle_closer`
component. This component makes sure pressure and enthalpy are at its inlet
and its outlet. This way, the fluid properties at the consumer's outlet are
identical to those at the pump's inlet, too.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.connections import ref

    c_in_cd.set_attr(T=170, fluid={'water': 0, 'NH3': 1})
    close_rp.set_attr(T=60, p=10, fluid={'water': 1, 'NH3': 0})
    cd_cons.set_attr(T=90)

.. code-block:: python

    # %% key parameter

    cons.set_attr(Q=-230e3)

Solve
+++++

After creating the system, we want to solve our network. First, we calculate
the design case and directly after we can perform the offdesign calculation at
a different value for our key parameter. For general information on the solving
process in TESPy and available parameters check the corresponding section in
:ref:`Using TESPy <using_tespy_networks_label>`.

.. code-block:: python

    nw.solve('design')
    nw.print_results()
    nw.save('condenser')

    cons.set_attr(Q=-200e3)

    nw.solve('offdesign', design_path='condenser')
    nw.print_results()


Valve and evaporator system
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Next we will add the valve and the evaporator system to our existing network.

Components
++++++++++

This part contains of a valve followed by a drum with evaporator in forced flow
and a superheater. Do not forget to change the old sink labeled "valve" to an
actual valve and the sink used in the previous calculation will represent the
first compressor, labeled "compressor 1". Add the following components to the
script.

.. code-block:: python

    # sources & sinks

    amb_in = source('source ambient')
    amb_out = sink('sink ambient')

    cp1 = sink('compressor 1')

    # evaporator system

    va = valve('valve')
    dr = drum('drum')
    ev = heat_exchanger('evaporator')
    su = heat_exchanger('superheater')
    pu = pump('pump evaporator')

Connections
+++++++++++

As we already redefined our variable "va" to be a valve instead of a sink (see
above), we do not need any adjustments to the connection between the condenser
and the former sink "cd_va". The valve connects to the drum at the inlet 'in1'.
The pump of the forced flow evaporation system connects to the drum's outlet
'out1', the evaporator's cold side connects to the drum's inlet 'in2' and the
superheater's cold side connects to the drum's outlet 'out2'. This will add the
following connections to the model:

.. code-block:: python

    # evaporator system

    va_dr = connection(va, 'out1', dr, 'in1')
    dr_pu = connection(dr, 'out1', pu, 'in1')
    pu_ev = connection(pu, 'out1', ev, 'in2')
    ev_dr = connection(ev, 'out2', dr, 'in2')
    dr_su = connection(dr, 'out2', su, 'in2')

    nw.add_conns(va_dr, dr_pu, pu_ev, ev_dr, dr_su)

    amb_in_su = connection(amb_in, 'out1', su, 'in1')
    su_ev = connection(su, 'out1', ev, 'in1')
    ev_amb_out = connection(ev, 'out1', amb_out, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(amb_in_su, su_ev, ev_amb_out)

    # connection evaporator system - compressor system

    su_cp1 = connection(su, 'out2', cp1, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(su_cp1)

Parametrization
+++++++++++++++

Previous parametrization stays untouched. Regarding the evaporator, we specify
pressure ratios on hot and cold side as well as the lower terminal temperature
difference. We use the hot side pressure ratio and the lower terminal
temperature difference as design parameters and choose zeta as well as the
area independent heat transition coefficient as its offdesign parameters.

On top of that, the characteristic function of the evaporator should follow the
default characteristic line of 'EVAPORATING FLUID' on the cold side and the
default line 'DEFAULT' on the hot side. These lines are defined in the
:py:mod:`tespy.data` module. If you want to learn more about handling
characteristic functions you should have a glance at the
:ref:`TESPy components section <using_tespy_components_label>`. The superheater
will also use the pressure ratios on hot and cold side. Further we set a value
for the upper terminal temperature difference. For the pump we set the
isentropic efficiency. For offdesign and design parameter specification of
these components the same logic as for the evaporator and the already existing
part of the network is applied: The system designer has to answer the question:
Which parameters are design point parameters and how does the component perform
at a different operation point.

.. code-block:: python

    # evaporator system

    kA_char1 = ldc('heat exchanger', 'kA_char1', 'DEFAULT', char_line)
    kA_char2 = ldc('heat exchanger', 'kA_char2', 'EVAPORATING FLUID', char_line)

    ev.set_attr(pr1=0.99, pr2=0.99, ttd_l=5,
                kA_char1=kA_char1, kA_char2=kA_char2,
                design=['pr1', 'ttd_l'], offdesign=['zeta1', 'kA'])
    su.set_attr(pr1=0.99, pr2=0.99, ttd_u=2, design=['pr1', 'pr2', 'ttd_u'],
                offdesign=['zeta1', 'zeta2', 'kA'])
    pu.set_attr(eta_s=0.8, design=['eta_s'], offdesign=['eta_s_char'])

Next step is the connection parametrization: The pressure in the drum and the
enthalpy of the wet steam reentering the drum need to be determined. For the
enthalpy we can specify a reference of the circulating mass flow to the main
cycle mass flow. The pressure is achieved through the given lower terminal
temperature difference of the evaporator and its hot side outlet temperature.
As we have specified a terminal temperature difference at the evaporator's cold
side inlet (:code:`ttd_l`), it might be necessary to state a starting value for
the pressure, as we are near to the two-phase region. On the hot side inlet of
the superheater we define the temperature, pressure and the fluid. Since the
pressure between superheater and first compressor will be a result of the
pressure losses in the superheater and we set the terminal temperature
difference there, bad starting values will lead to a linear dependency, as a
temperature and a pressure are set while the fluid's state could be within the
two phase region. Thus, we set starting values for pressure and for enthalpy at
this connection, to make sure the starting point is outside of the two phase
region. At last we have to fully determine the state of the incoming fluid at
the superheater's hot side.

.. code-block:: python

    # evaporator system cold side

    pu_ev.set_attr(m=ref(va_dr, 4, 0), p0=5)
    su_cp1.set_attr(p0=5, h0=1700)

    # evaporator system hot side

    amb_in_su.set_attr(T=12, p=1, fluid={'water': 1, 'NH3': 0})
    ev_amb_out.set_attr(T=9))

Solve
+++++

Again, you should calculate your network after you added these parts. As we
have already calculated one part of our network, this time we can use the
:code:`init_path` for the design calculation and load the results from the
previous network. This step is not required, but in larger, more complex
networks, it might help, to achieve better convergence. For the offdesign
calculation see part 3.1.4.


Compressor system
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To complete the heat pump, we will add the compressor system to our existing
network.

Components
++++++++++

This part contains two compressors with an intercooler between them. The cold
side of the intercooler requires a source and a sink. Again, remember
redefining the former sink "cp1" to a compressor. We will now replace the
source for the coolant :code:`c_in` at the condenser with another cycle closer
:code:`cool_closer`, to make sure the fluid properties after the second
compressor are identical to the fluid properties at the condenser inlet. The
intercooling leads to a lower COP but may be necessary depending on your
temperature level requirement on the consumer's side. In a single stage
compression, the outlet temperature of the coolant might be very high.

.. code-block:: python

    # sources & sinks

    ic_in = source('source intercool')
    ic_out = sink('sink intercool')

    cool_closer = cycle_closer('coolant cycle closer')

    # compressor-system

    cp1 = compressor('compressor 1')
    cp2 = compressor('compressor 2')
    he = heat_exchanger('intercooler')

Connections
+++++++++++

Consequently to the addition of the cycle closer we have to adjust the
connection definition touching the new cycle closer. Replace

.. code-block:: python

    c_in_cd = connection(c_in, 'out1', cd, 'in1')

with

.. code-block:: python

    c_in_cd = connection(cool_closer, 'out1', cd, 'in1')

Of course, do not forget to add the new connections to the script.

.. code-block:: python

    # compressor-system

    cp1_he = connection(cp1, 'out1', he, 'in1')
    he_cp2 = connection(he, 'out1', cp2, 'in1')
    cp2_close = connection(cp2, 'out1', cool_closer, 'in1')

    ic_in_he = connection(ic_in, 'out1', he, 'in2')
    he_ic_out = connection(he, 'out2', ic_out, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(cp1_he, he_cp2, ic_in_he, he_ic_out, cp2_close)

Parametrization
+++++++++++++++

For the two compressor we defined an isentropic efficiency and for the
offdesign calculation a generic characteristic line for the isentropic
efficiency will be applied. The first compressor has a fixed pressure ratio,
the seconds compressor pressure ratio will result from the required pressure
at the condenser. The heat exchanger comes with pressure ratios on both sides.
The parametrization of all other components remains identical.

.. code-block:: python

    cp1.set_attr(eta_s=0.8, design=['eta_s'], offdesign=['eta_s_char'])
    cp2.set_attr(eta_s=0.8, pr=5, design=['eta_s'], offdesign=['eta_s_char'])
    he.set_attr(pr1=0.99, pr2=0.98, design=['pr1', 'pr2'],
                offdesign=['zeta1', 'zeta2', 'kA'])

Regarding the connections, on the hot side after the intercooler we set the
temperature. For the cold side of the heat exchanger we set the temperature,
the pressure and the fluid on the inlet flow, at the outlet we specify the
temperature as a design parameter. In offdesign calculation, this will be a
result from the given heat transfer coefficient (see parametrisation of
intercooler, kA is an offdesign parameter). Last, make sure the fluid
properties after the compressor outlet are identical to those at the condenser
inlet using the references.

The last step leads to a necessary redefinition of the parametrization of the
existing model: As the enthalpy at the outlet of the second compressor is a
result of the given pressure ratio and the isentropic efficiency, it is not
allowed to set the temperature at the condenser's hot inlet anymore.

.. code-block:: python

    # condenser system

    c_in_cd.set_attr(fluid={'water': 0, 'NH3': 1})

    # compressor-system

    he_cp2.set_attr(T0=40, p0=10, design=['T'])
    ic_in_he.set_attr(p=1, T=20, fluid={'water': 1, 'NH3': 0})
    he_ic_out.set_attr(T=30, design=['T'])

Solve
+++++

Here again, using the saved results from previous calculations is always
favorable, but with the manually adjusted starting values, the calculation
should still converge. Also see section 3.2.4. If you want to use the previous
part to initialise start the solver with

.. code-block:: python

    nw.solve('design', init_path='condenser')


Further tasks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After successfully modeling the heat pump in design and offdesign cases, you
can now start using your model for further calculations. For example, if you
have a time series of required heat flow of your consumer, you can loop over
the series and perform offdesign calculation adjusting the heat flow every
time. Of course, this is possible with every offdesign parameter. We provide
the scripts after each of the three steps of the tutorial:
:download:`Step 1 <../tutorial/step_1.py>`,
:download:`Step 2 <../tutorial/step_2.py>`,
:download:`Step 3 <../tutorial/step_3.py>`.

Have fun working with TESPy!

Commit message:

Update heat pump tutorial
Remove the enthalpy starting value keyword and
replace with state='g' as this will work for
different refrigerants, too. Update corresponding
description in heat pump tutorial section.

docs/tutorials_examples/tutorial_heat_pump.rst, after:

Heat pump tutorial
------------------

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:
    :backlinks: top

Task
^^^^

This tutorial introduces you in how to model a heat pump in TESPy. You can see
the plants topology in the figure. Also, you will find a fully working model in
the last chapter of this tutorial.

.. figure:: api/_images/tutorial_heat_pump.svg
    :align: center

    Figure: Topology of the heat pump.

The main purpose of the heat pump is to deliver heat e.g. for the consumers of
a heating system. Thus, the heat pump's parameters will be set in a way, which
supports this target.
Generally, if systems are getting more complex, it is highly recommended to set
up your plant in incremental steps. This tutorial divides the plant in three
sections: The consumer part, the valve and the evaporator and the compressor as
last element. Each new section will be appended to the existing ones.


Set up a Network
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to simulate our heat pump we have to create an instance of the
tespy.network class. The network is the main container of the model and will be
required in all following sections.
First, it is necessary to specify a list of the fluids used in the plant. In
this example we will work with water (H\ :sub:`2`\O) and ammonia
(NH\ :sub:`3`\). Water is used for the cold side of the heat exchanger, for the
consumer and for the hot side of the environmental temperature. Ammonia is used
as coolant within the heat pump circuit. If you don’t specify the unit system,
the variables are set to SI-Units.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.networks import network

    nw = network(fluids=['water', 'NH3'],
                 T_unit='C', p_unit='bar', h_unit='kJ / kg', m_unit='kg / s')

We will use °C, bar and kJ/kg as units for temperature and enthalpy.

Modeling the heat pump: Consumer system
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Components
++++++++++

We will start with the consumer as the plant will be designed to deliver a
specific heat flow. From figure 1 you can determine the components of the
consumer system: condenser, pump and the consumer (heat-exchanger-simple).
Additionally we need a source and a sink for the consumer and the heat pump
circuit respectively. We will import all necessary components already in the
first step, so the imports will not need further adjustment

We label the sink for the coolant "valve", as for our next calculation the
valve (labeled "valve") will be attached there. In this way, the fluid
properties can be initialised by .csv at the interface-connection, too.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.components import (source, sink, cycle_closer,
                                  valve, drum, pump, compressor,
                                  condenser, heat_exchanger_simple,
                                  heat_exchanger)

    # sources & sinks

    c_in = source('coolant in')
    cons_closer = cycle_closer('consumer cycle closer')

    va = sink('valve')

    # consumer system

    cd = condenser('condenser')
    rp = pump('recirculation pump')
    cons = heat_exchanger_simple('consumer'))

Connections
+++++++++++

In the next steps we will connect the components in order to form a network.
Every connection requires the source, the source id, the target and the target
id as arguments: the source is the component from which the connection
originates, the source id is the outlet id of that component. This applies
analogously to the target. To find all inlet and outlet ids of a component look
up the class documentation.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.connections import connection

    # consumer system

    c_in_cd = connection(c_in, 'out1', cd, 'in1')

    close_rp = connection(cons_closer, 'out1', rp, 'in1')
    rp_cd = connection(rp, 'out1', cd, 'in2')
    cd_cons = connection(cd, 'out2', cons, 'in1')
    cons_close = connection(cons, 'out1', cons_closer, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(c_in_cd, close_rp, rp_cd, cd_cons, cons_close)

    # connection condenser - evaporator system

    cd_va = connection(cd, 'out1', va, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(cd_va)

.. note::

    Instead of just connecting the consumers outlet to the pumps inlet, we must
    to make use of at least one auxiliary component: Closing a cycle without
    further adjustments will always result in a linear dependency in the fluid
    and the mass flow equations. We therefore need to cut open the cycle. The
    :py:class`tespy.components.basics.cycle_closer` component makes sure, the
    fluid properties pressure and enthalpy are identical at the inlet and the
    outlet. A different solution to this problem, is adding a merge and a
    splitter at some point of your network and connect the second inlet/outlet
    to a source/sink. This causes residual mass flow and residual fluids to
    emerge/drain there. The cycle closer will give out a warning, if the mass
    flow or the fluid composition at its outlet are different to those at its
    inlet.

Parametrization
+++++++++++++++

For the condenser we set pressure ratios on hot and cold side and additionally
we set a value for the upper terminal temperature difference as design
parameter and the heat transfer coefficient as offdesign parameter. The
consumer will have a pressure ratio, too. Further we set the isentropic
efficiency for the pump, the offdesign efficiency is calculated with a
characteristic function. Thus, we set the efficiency as design parameter and
the characteristic function as offdesign parameter. In offdesign calculation
the consumer's pressure ratio will be a function of the mass flow, thus as
offdesign parameter we select zeta. The most important parameter is the
consumers heat demand. We marked this setting as key parameter.

.. code-block:: python

    cd.set_attr(pr1=0.99, pr2=0.99, ttd_u=5, design=['pr2', 'ttd_u'],
                offdesign=['zeta2', 'kA'])
    rp.set_attr(eta_s=0.8, design=['eta_s'], offdesign=['eta_s_char'])
    cons.set_attr(pr=0.99, design=['pr'], offdesign=['zeta'])

.. note::

    In TESPy there are two different types of calculations: design point and
    offdesign calculation. All parameters specified in the design attribute of
    a component or connection, will be unset in a offdesign calculation, all
    parameters specified in the offdesign attribute of a component or
    connection will be set for the offdesign calculation. The value for these
    parameters is the value derived from the design-calculation.

    Generally, the design calculation is used for designing your system in the
    way you want it to look like. This means, that you might want to specify a
    design point isentropic efficiency, pressure loss or terminal temperature
    difference. After you have designed your system, you are able to make
    offdesign calculations with TESPy. The offdesign calculation is used to
    predict the system's behavior at different points of operation. For this
    case, this might be different ambient temperature, different feed flow
    temperature, or partial load.

In order to calculate this network further parametrization is necessary, as e.
g. the fluids are not determined yet: At the hot inlet of the condenser we
define the temperature and the fluid vector. In order to fully determine the
fluid's state at this point, an information on the pressure is required. This
is achieved by setting the terminal temperature difference (see above). The
same needs to be done for the consumer cycle. We suggest to set the parameters
at the pump's inlet. On top, we assume that the consumer requires a constant
inlet temperature.

The last step is to define the fluid's state after the consumer. This is
automatically performed by the :py:class:`tespy.components.basics.cycle_closer`
component. This component makes sure pressure and enthalpy are at its inlet
and its outlet. This way, the fluid properties at the consumer's outlet are
identical to those at the pump's inlet, too.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.connections import ref

    c_in_cd.set_attr(T=170, fluid={'water': 0, 'NH3': 1})
    close_rp.set_attr(T=60, p=10, fluid={'water': 1, 'NH3': 0})
    cd_cons.set_attr(T=90)

.. code-block:: python

    # %% key parameter

    cons.set_attr(Q=-230e3)

Solve
+++++

After creating the system, we want to solve our network. First, we calculate
the design case and directly after we can perform the offdesign calculation at
a different value for our key parameter. For general information on the solving
process in TESPy and available parameters check the corresponding section in
:ref:`Using TESPy <using_tespy_networks_label>`.

.. code-block:: python

    nw.solve('design')
    nw.print_results()
    nw.save('condenser')

    cons.set_attr(Q=-200e3)

    nw.solve('offdesign', design_path='condenser')
    nw.print_results()


Valve and evaporator system
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Next we will add the valve and the evaporator system to our existing network.

Components
++++++++++

This part contains of a valve followed by a drum with evaporator in forced flow
and a superheater. Do not forget to change the old sink labeled "valve" to an
actual valve and the sink used in the previous calculation will represent the
first compressor, labeled "compressor 1". Add the following components to the
script.

.. code-block:: python

    # sources & sinks

    amb_in = source('source ambient')
    amb_out = sink('sink ambient')

    cp1 = sink('compressor 1')

    # evaporator system

    va = valve('valve')
    dr = drum('drum')
    ev = heat_exchanger('evaporator')
    su = heat_exchanger('superheater')
    pu = pump('pump evaporator')

Connections
+++++++++++

As we already redefined our variable "va" to be a valve instead of a sink (see
above), we do not need any adjustments to the connection between the condenser
and the former sink "cd_va". The valve connects to the drum at the inlet 'in1'.
The pump of the forced flow evaporation system connects to the drum's outlet
'out1', the evaporator's cold side connects to the drum's inlet 'in2' and the
superheater's cold side connects to the drum's outlet 'out2'. This will add the
following connections to the model:

.. code-block:: python

    # evaporator system

    va_dr = connection(va, 'out1', dr, 'in1')
    dr_pu = connection(dr, 'out1', pu, 'in1')
    pu_ev = connection(pu, 'out1', ev, 'in2')
    ev_dr = connection(ev, 'out2', dr, 'in2')
    dr_su = connection(dr, 'out2', su, 'in2')

    nw.add_conns(va_dr, dr_pu, pu_ev, ev_dr, dr_su)

    amb_in_su = connection(amb_in, 'out1', su, 'in1')
    su_ev = connection(su, 'out1', ev, 'in1')
    ev_amb_out = connection(ev, 'out1', amb_out, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(amb_in_su, su_ev, ev_amb_out)

    # connection evaporator system - compressor system

    su_cp1 = connection(su, 'out2', cp1, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(su_cp1)

Parametrization
+++++++++++++++

Previous parametrization stays untouched. Regarding the evaporator, we specify
pressure ratios on hot and cold side as well as the lower terminal temperature
difference. We use the hot side pressure ratio and the lower terminal
temperature difference as design parameters and choose zeta as well as the
area independent heat transition coefficient as its offdesign parameters.

On top of that, the characteristic function of the evaporator should follow the
default characteristic line of 'EVAPORATING FLUID' on the cold side and the
default line 'DEFAULT' on the hot side. These lines are defined in the
:py:mod:`tespy.data` module. If you want to learn more about handling
characteristic functions you should have a glance at the
:ref:`TESPy components section <using_tespy_components_label>`. The superheater
will also use the pressure ratios on hot and cold side. Further we set a value
for the upper terminal temperature difference. For the pump we set the
isentropic efficiency. For offdesign and design parameter specification of
these components the same logic as for the evaporator and the already existing
part of the network is applied: The system designer has to answer the question:
Which parameters are design point parameters and how does the component perform
at a different operation point.

.. code-block:: python

    # evaporator system

    kA_char1 = ldc('heat exchanger', 'kA_char1', 'DEFAULT', char_line)
    kA_char2 = ldc('heat exchanger', 'kA_char2', 'EVAPORATING FLUID', char_line)

    ev.set_attr(pr1=0.99, pr2=0.99, ttd_l=5,
                kA_char1=kA_char1, kA_char2=kA_char2,
                design=['pr1', 'ttd_l'], offdesign=['zeta1', 'kA'])
    su.set_attr(pr1=0.99, pr2=0.99, ttd_u=2, design=['pr1', 'pr2', 'ttd_u'],
                offdesign=['zeta1', 'zeta2', 'kA'])
    pu.set_attr(eta_s=0.8, design=['eta_s'], offdesign=['eta_s_char'])

Next step is the connection parametrization: The pressure in the drum and the
enthalpy of the wet steam reentering the drum need to be determined. For the
enthalpy we can specify a reference of the circulating mass flow to the main
cycle mass flow. The pressure is achieved through the given lower terminal
temperature difference of the evaporator and its hot side outlet temperature.
As we have specified a terminal temperature difference at the evaporator's cold
side inlet (:code:`ttd_l`), it might be necessary to state a starting value for
the pressure, as we are near to the two-phase region. On the hot side inlet of
the superheater we define the temperature, pressure and the fluid. Since the
pressure between superheater and first compressor will be a result of the
pressure losses in the superheater and we set the terminal temperature
difference there, bad starting values will lead to a linear dependency, as a
temperature and a pressure are set while the fluid's state could be within the
two phase region. Thus, we set starting values for pressure the fluid's state
at this connection. By specifying :code:`state='g'` the solver will keep the
fluid in gaseous state at all times. Therefore we should only use this keyword
if we know the fluid's state prior to simulation. At last we have to fully
determine the state of the incoming fluid at the superheater's hot side.

.. code-block:: python

    # evaporator system cold side

    pu_ev.set_attr(m=ref(va_dr, 4, 0), p0=5)
    su_cp1.set_attr(p0=5, state='g')

    # evaporator system hot side

    amb_in_su.set_attr(T=12, p=1, fluid={'water': 1, 'NH3': 0})
    ev_amb_out.set_attr(T=9))

Solve
+++++

Again, you should calculate your network after you added these parts. As we
have already calculated one part of our network, this time we can use the
:code:`init_path` for the design calculation and load the results from the
previous network. This step is not required, but in larger, more complex
networks, it might help, to achieve better convergence. For the offdesign
calculation see part 3.1.4.


Compressor system
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To complete the heat pump, we will add the compressor system to our existing
network.

Components
++++++++++

This part contains two compressors with an intercooler between them. The cold
side of the intercooler requires a source and a sink. Again, remember
redefining the former sink "cp1" to a compressor. We will now replace the
source for the coolant :code:`c_in` at the condenser with another cycle closer
:code:`cool_closer`, to make sure the fluid properties after the second
compressor are identical to the fluid properties at the condenser inlet. The
intercooling leads to a lower COP but may be necessary depending on your
temperature level requirement on the consumer's side. In a single stage
compression, the outlet temperature of the coolant might be very high.

.. code-block:: python

    # sources & sinks

    ic_in = source('source intercool')
    ic_out = sink('sink intercool')

    cool_closer = cycle_closer('coolant cycle closer')

    # compressor-system

    cp1 = compressor('compressor 1')
    cp2 = compressor('compressor 2')
    he = heat_exchanger('intercooler')

Connections
+++++++++++

Consequently to the addition of the cycle closer we have to adjust the
connection definition touching the new cycle closer. Replace

.. code-block:: python

    c_in_cd = connection(c_in, 'out1', cd, 'in1')

with

.. code-block:: python

    c_in_cd = connection(cool_closer, 'out1', cd, 'in1')

Of course, do not forget to add the new connections to the script.

.. code-block:: python

    # compressor-system

    cp1_he = connection(cp1, 'out1', he, 'in1')
    he_cp2 = connection(he, 'out1', cp2, 'in1')
    cp2_close = connection(cp2, 'out1', cool_closer, 'in1')

    ic_in_he = connection(ic_in, 'out1', he, 'in2')
    he_ic_out = connection(he, 'out2', ic_out, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(cp1_he, he_cp2, ic_in_he, he_ic_out, cp2_close)

Parametrization
+++++++++++++++

For the two compressor we defined an isentropic efficiency and for the
offdesign calculation a generic characteristic line for the isentropic
efficiency will be applied. The first compressor has a fixed pressure ratio,
the seconds compressor pressure ratio will result from the required pressure
at the condenser. The heat exchanger comes with pressure ratios on both sides.
The parametrization of all other components remains identical.

.. code-block:: python

    cp1.set_attr(eta_s=0.8, design=['eta_s'], offdesign=['eta_s_char'])
    cp2.set_attr(eta_s=0.8, pr=5, design=['eta_s'], offdesign=['eta_s_char'])
    he.set_attr(pr1=0.99, pr2=0.98, design=['pr1', 'pr2'],
                offdesign=['zeta1', 'zeta2', 'kA'])

Regarding the connections, on the hot side after the intercooler we set the
temperature. For the cold side of the heat exchanger we set the temperature,
the pressure and the fluid on the inlet flow, at the outlet we specify the
temperature as a design parameter. In offdesign calculation, this will be a
result from the given heat transfer coefficient (see parametrisation of
intercooler, kA is an offdesign parameter). Last, make sure the fluid
properties after the compressor outlet are identical to those at the condenser
inlet using the references.

The last step leads to a necessary redefinition of the parametrization of the
existing model: As the enthalpy at the outlet of the second compressor is a
result of the given pressure ratio and the isentropic efficiency, it is not
allowed to set the temperature at the condenser's hot inlet anymore.

.. code-block:: python

    # condenser system

    c_in_cd.set_attr(fluid={'water': 0, 'NH3': 1})

    # compressor-system

    he_cp2.set_attr(T0=40, p0=10, design=['T'])
    ic_in_he.set_attr(p=1, T=20, fluid={'water': 1, 'NH3': 0})
    he_ic_out.set_attr(T=30, design=['T'])

Solve
+++++

Here again, using the saved results from previous calculations is always
favorable, but with the manually adjusted starting values, the calculation
should still converge. Also see section 3.2.4. If you want to use the previous
part to initialise start the solver with

.. code-block:: python

    nw.solve('design', init_path='condenser')


Further tasks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After successfully modeling the heat pump in design and offdesign cases, you
can now start using your model for further calculations. For example, if you
have a time series of required heat flow of your consumer, you can loop over
the series and perform offdesign calculation adjusting the heat flow every
time. Of course, this is possible with every offdesign parameter. We provide
the scripts after each of the three steps of the tutorial:
:download:`Step 1 <../tutorial/step_1.py>`,
:download:`Step 2 <../tutorial/step_2.py>`,
:download:`Step 3 <../tutorial/step_3.py>`.

Have fun working with TESPy!
