docs/analyses/exergy.rst, before:

Exergy analysis
===============

Fundamentals of exergy analysis
-------------------------------
Energy is a concept of the first law of thermodynamics. It cannot be destroyed.
But regarding the design and analysis of thermal systems, the idea that
something can be destroyed is useful. According to the second law of
thermodynamics, the conversion of heat and internal energy into work is
limited. This constraint and the idea of destruction are applied to introduce a
new concept: "Exergy".

Exergy can be destroyed due to irreversibilities and is able to describe the
quality of different energy forms. The difference in quality of different forms
of energy shall be illustrated by the following example. 1 kJ of electrical
energy is clearly more valuable than 1 kJ of energy in a glass of water at
ambient temperature :cite:`Bejan1996`.

In literature, exergy is defined as follows:

    *"An opportunity for doing useful work exists whenever two systems at
    different states are placed in communication, for in principle work can be
    developed as the two are allowed to come into equilibrium. When one of the
    two systems is a suitably idealized system called an environment and the
    other is some system of interest, exergy is the maximum theoretical useful
    work (shaft work or electrical work) obtainable as the systems interact to
    equilibrium, heat transfer occuring with the environment only."*
    :cite:`Bejan1996`

Terminology
-----------
The definitions and nomenclature of the exergy analysis in TESPy are based on
:cite:`Tsatsaronis2007`. The exergy destruction ratios are described in more
detail in :cite:`Bejan1996`. Since the current version of the exergy analysis
in TESPy only focuses on physical exergy and does not include reaction
processes yet, chemical exergy is not considered. Changes in kinetic and
potential exergy are neglected and therefore not considered as well.

.. list-table:: Terminology
    :widths: 20 20 10 50
    :header-rows: 1
    :class: tight-table

    * - variable
      - name
      - symbol
      - description
    * - :code:`ex_physical`, :code:`Ex_physical`
      - (specific) physical exergy
      - :math:`e^\mathrm{PH}`, :math:`E^\mathrm{PH}`
      - due to the deviation of the temperature and pressure of the system from
        those of the environment
    * - :code:`ex_therm`, :code:`Ex_therm`
      - (specific) thermal exergy
      - :math:`e^\mathrm{T}`, :math:`E^\mathrm{T}`
      - associated with the system temperature
    * - :code:`ex_mech`, :code:`Ex_mech`
      - (specific) mechanical exergy
      - :math:`e^\mathrm{M}`, :math:`E^\mathrm{M}`
      - associated with the system pressure
    * - :code:`E_P`
      - product exergy
      - :math:`\dot{E}_\mathrm{P}`
      - represents the desired result(expressed in terms of exergy) generated
        by the system being considered represents the resources (expressed in
        terms of exergy)
    * - :code:`E_F`
      - fuel exergy
      - :math:`\dot{E}_\mathrm{F}`
      - represents the resources (expressed in terms of exergy) expended to
        provide the product exergy
    * - :code:`E_D`
      - exergy destruction
      - :math:`\dot{E}_\mathrm{D}`
      - thermodynamic inefficienies associated with the irreversibilities
        (entropy generation) within the system boundaries
    * - :code:`E_L`
      - exergy loss
      - :math:`\dot{E}_\mathrm{L}`
      - thermodynamic inefficienies associated with the transfer of exergy
        through material and energy streams to the surroundings
    * - :code:`epsilon`
      - exergetic efficiency
      - :math:`\varepsilon`
      - ratio between product exergy and fuel exergy
    * - :code:`y_D,k`
      - exergy destruction ratio
      - :math:`y_\mathrm{D}`
      - rate of exergy destruction in a component compared to the exergy rate
        of the fuel provided to the overall system
    * - :code:`y*_D,k`
      - exergy destruction ratio
      - :math:`y^*_\mathrm{D}`
      - rate of exergy destruction in a component compared to the total exergy
        destruction rate within the system

.. note::

    The generic exergy analysis balance equations have been implemented into
    TESPy for all components, that do not implement chemical reactions. The
    equations for exergy balances at temperature values below the ambient
    temperature are implemented as well, but are not yet fully tested.

Tutorial
--------
In this short tutorial, an exergy analysis is carried out for the so called
"Solar Energy Generating System" (SEGS). The full python script is available on
GitHub in an individual repository: https://github.com/fwitte/SEGS_exergy.

Two other full code examples are to be found at:

- Supercritical CO\ :sub:`2` power cycle: https://github.com/fwitte/sCO2_exergy
- Refrigeration machine: https://github.com/fwitte/refrigeration_cycle_exergy

SEGS consists of three main systems, the solar field, the steam cycle and the
cooling water system. In the solar field Therminol VP1 (TVP1) is used as heat transfer
fluid. In the steam generator and reheater the TVP1 is cooled down to evaporate
and overheat/reheat the water of the steam cycle. The turbine is divided in a
high pressure turbine and a low pressure turbine, which are further subdivided
in 2 parts (high pressure turbine) and 5 parts. In between the stages steam is
exctracted for preheating. Finally, the main condenser of the steam cycle is
connected to an air cooling tower. The figure below shows the topology of the
model.

.. figure:: /api/_images/SEGS_flowsheet.svg
    :align: center
    :alt: Topology of the Solar Energy Generating System (SEGS)

The input data are based on literature :cite:`Kearney1988`, which provides
measured data. Some parameters are however taken from a follow-up publication,
as the original data show some inconsistencies, e.g. higher enthalpy at the low
pressure turbine's last stage outlet than at its inlet :cite:`Lippke1995`. As
mentioned, you can find all data in the respective GitHub repository.

TESPy model
^^^^^^^^^^^
The TESPy model consists of 53 components. The feed water tank serves as mixing
preheater, thus can be modeled using a merge. All other components are modeled
highlighted in the flowsheet. The preheaters and the main condenser are modeled
as :code:`Condenser` instances, while all other heat exchangers are modeled
using :code:`HeatExchanger` instances. For the solar field a parabolic trough
is implemented, calculating the surface area required for the provision of the
heat input at optimal conditions.

All components are flagged with the :code:`fkt_group` parameter, which will
automatically create functional groups (component groups) for the exergy
analysis Grassmann diagram. The specification of this parameter is not required
for the exergy analysis itself, but helps to simplify the automatically
generated diagram. Components not assigned to any functional group will form
their respective group.

Regarding parameter specification, the following parameters are specified:

- isentropic efficiency values
- electrical conversion efficiencies of motors and generators
- terminal temperature difference values at preheaters
- pressure values of steam extraction
- pressure values in the preheating route
- pressure losses in the heat exchangers
- solar fluid temperature
- steam cycle live steam and reheat temperatures
- some temperature values in the cooling water system

The ambient state is defined as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    pamb = 1.013
    Tamb = 25

Pressure and temperature of the ambient air in the cooling tower are equal to
these values in the script provided.

For the exact values of the component parameters please see in the referenced
python script.

Due to the complexity of the plant, the solver sometimes struggles when given bad
starting values. Therefore, the TESPy model is built in two steps. After
solving the initial setup without both of the high pressure preheater
subcoolers, the missing connections and components are added in a second step
and the model is again solved.

Analysis setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
After the simulation of the plant, the exergy analysis can be carried out.
To perform it, all exergy streams leaving or entering the network's system
boundaries have to be defined by the user. These are:

- fuel exergy :code:`E_F`
- product exergy :code:`E_P`
- exergy loss streams :code:`E_L`
- internal exergy streams not bound to connections :code:`internal_busses`

In case of the solar thermal power plant, the fuel exergy is the heat input at
the parabolic trough. The product is the electricity produced by the plant,
i.e. the electricity generated by the turbine generators minus the electricity
consumed by the pumps and the fan. Lastly, exergy loss streams are the hot air
leaving the cooling tower and the cold air entering the cooling tower fan from
the ambient. Similar to the electricity consumption of the fan and pumps the
cold air will be taken into account as negative value for the total exergy
loss.

.. code-block:: python

    power = Bus('total output power')
    power.add_comps({'comp': hpt1, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': hpt2, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt1, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt2, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt3, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt4, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt5, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': fwp, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'},
                    {'comp': condpump, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'},
                    {'comp': ptpump, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'},
                    {'comp': cwp, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'},
                    {'comp': fan, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'})

    heat_input_bus = Bus('heat input')
    heat_input_bus.add_comps({'comp': pt, 'base': 'bus'})

    exergy_loss_bus = Bus('exergy loss')
    exergy_loss_bus.add_comps({'comp': air_in, 'base': 'bus'}, {'comp': air_out})

    SEGSvi.add_busses(power, heat_input_bus, exergy_loss_bus)

In order to define these values a list of busses representing the individual
exergy streams is passed when creating the ExergyAnalysis instance.

.. code-block:: python

    ean = ExergyAnalysis(SEGSvi, E_P=[power], E_F=[heat_input_bus], E_L=[exergy_loss_bus])

In this case, the Bus :code:`power` represents the product exergy, the Bus
:code:`heat_input_bus` the fuel exergy of the solar field and the Bus
:code:`exergy_loss_bus` the exergy lost with the hot air leaving the cooling
tower. An example application using the :code:`internal_busses` can be found in
the API documentation of class :py:class:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis`.

After the setup of the exergy analysis, the
:py:meth:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis.analyse` method expects the
definition of the ambient state, thus ambient temperature and ambient pressure.
With these information, the analysis is carried out automatically. The value
of the ambient conditions is passed in the network's (:code:`nw`) corresponding
units.

.. code-block:: python

    ean.analyse(pamb=pamb, Tamb=Tamb)

Using the same :py:class:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis` instance, it is
possible to run the analysis again with a different ambient state. The data
generated by the analysis will automatically update, e.g. changing the ambient
state temperature value to 15 °C.

.. code-block:: python

    ean.analyse(pamb=pamb, Tamb=15)


.. note::

    If the network's topology changed a new instance of the
    :code:`ExergyAnalysis` class needs to be defined.

Checking consistency
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
An automatic check of consistency is performed by the analysis. The sum of all
exergy destruction values of the network's components and the exergy
destruction on the respective busses is calculated. On top of that, fuel and
product exergy values as well as exergy loss are determined. The total exergy
destruction must therefore be equal to the fuel exergy minus product exergy and
minus exergy loss. The deviation of that equation is then calculated and
checked versus a threshold value of :math:`10^{-3}` (to componesate for
rounding errors).

.. math::

    \dot{E}_\mathrm{D} = \dot{E}_\mathrm{F} - \dot{E}_\mathrm{P} -
    \dot{E}_\mathrm{L}

    \Delta \dot{E} = \dot{E}_\mathrm{F} - \dot{E}_\mathrm{P} -
    \dot{E}_\mathrm{L} - \dot{E}_\mathrm{D}

    \Delta \dot{E} \leq 10^{-3}

.. note::

    If the exergy analysis is carried out on a converged simulation and the
    analysis is set up correctly, this equation must be True. Otherwise, an
    error will be printed to the console, which means:

    - The simulation of your plant did not converge or
    - the exergy analysis has not been set up correctly. You should
      check, if the definition of the exergy streams :code:`E_F`, :code:`E_P`,
      :code:`E_L` and :code:`internal_busses` is correct.

    If you suspect a bug in the calculation, you are welcome to submit an issue
    on our GitHub page.

Printing the results is possible with the
:py:meth:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis.print_results` method. The
results are printed in six individual tables:

- connections
- components
- busses
- aggregation (aggregation of components and the respective busses)
- network
- groups (functional groups)

By default, all of these tables are printed to the prompt. It is possible to
deselect the tables, e.g. by passing :code:`groups=False` to the method call.

.. code-block:: python

    ean.print_results(groups=False, connections=False)

For the component related tables, i.e. busses, components, aggregation and
groups, the data are sorted in descending order for the given exergy destruction value
of the individual entry. The component data contain fuel exergy, product exergy
and exergy destruction values related to the component itself ignoring losses
that might occur on the busses, for example, mechanical or electrical
conversion losses in motors and generators. The bus data contain the respective
information related to the conversion losses on the busses only. The
aggregation data contain both, the component and the bus data. For instance,
a turbine driving a generator will have the electrical energy delivered by the
generator as product exergy value. The same component's exergy product without
considering the mechanical or electrical conversion losses is the shaft power
delivered by the turbine. From the generator's perspective, this is the fuel
exergy, while the product is the electrical energy.

.. note::

  Please note, that in contrast to the component and bus data, group data do
  not contain fuel and product exergy as well as exergy efficiency. Instead all
  exergy streams entering the system borders of the component group and all
  exergy streams leaving the system borders are calculated. On this basis, a
  graphical representation of the exergy flows in the network can be generated
  in the form of a Grassmann diagram.

Accessing the data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The underlying data for the tabular printouts are stored in
`pandas DataFrames <https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/user_guide/dsintro.html>`_.
Therefore, you can easily access and process these data. To access these use
the following code snippet.

.. code-block:: python

    connection_data = ean.connection_data
    bus_data = ean.bus_data
    component_data = ean.component_data
    aggregation_data = ean.aggregation_data
    network_data = ean.network_data
    group_data = ean.group_data

Lastly, the analysis also provides an input data generator for plotly's
`sankey diagram <https://plotly.com/python/sankey-diagram/>`_.

Plotting
^^^^^^^^
To use the plotly library, you'll need to install it first. Please check the
respective documentation on plotly's documentation. Generating a sankey
diagram is then easily done:

.. code-block:: python

    import plotly.graph_objects as go

    links, nodes = ean.generate_plotly_sankey_input()

    fig = go.Figure(go.Sankey(
        arrangement='snap',
        node={
            'label': nodes,
            'pad':11,
            'color': 'orange'},
        link=links))
    fig.show()

.. figure:: /api/_images/SEGS_sankey.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Sankey diagram of the Soler Energy Generating System (SEGS)

The :py:meth:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis.generate_plotly_sankey_input`
method provides the links and the corresponding nodes for the diagram. Colors
and node order are assigned automatically but can be changed. Additionally, a
threshold value for the minimum value of an exergy stream can be specified to
exclude relatively small values from display.

.. code-block:: python

    ean.generate_plotly_sankey_input(
        node_order=[
            'E_F', 'heat input', 'SF', 'SG', 'LPT', 'RH', 'HPT',
            'total output power', 'CW', 'LPP', 'FWP', 'HPP', 'exergy loss',
            'E_L', 'E_P', 'E_D'
        ],
        colors={'E_F': 'rgba(100, 100, 100, 0.5)'},
        display_thresold=1)

The coloring of the links is defined by the type of the exergy stream (bound
to a specific fluid, fuel exergy, product exergy, exergy loss, exergy
destruction or internal exergy streams not bound to mass flows). Therefore
colors can be assigned to these types of streams.

.. note::

    - The :code:`node_order` must contain all exergy streams, thus

      - ALL component group labels (you can find the labels in the group data
        results printout),
      - lables of the busses used in the definitions of the analysis and
      - :code:`'E_F'`, :code:`'E_P'`, :code:`'E_D'` as well as :code:`'E_L'`

    - The colors dictionary works with the following keys:

      - :code:`'E_F'`, :code:`'E_P'`, :code:`'E_D'`, :code:`'E_L'`
      - all labels of the busses used in the definition of the internal exergy
        streams
      - all names of the network's fluid
      - :code:`'mix'` for any mixture of two or more fluids

    - Keys missing in the dictionary will automatically assign a color to the
      link.
    - The respective value are strings representing colors in the RGBA format,
      e.g. :code:`'rgba(100, 100, 100, 0.5)'`.

.. note::

    Links with negative exergy flow, i.e. when the value of mechanical exergy
    is negative due to pressure lower than ambient pressure and total exergy
    is still negative, cannot be displayed by the sankey diagram.

The underlying exergy stream data is saved in a dictionary, if you want to
handle the data by yourself.

.. code-block:: python

    sankey_data = ean.sankey_data


Conclusion
----------
An additional example is available in the API documentation of the
:py:class:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis` class. Full testing of exergy
analysis at temperature levels below the ambient temperature will be
implemented soon. Regarding the implementation of chemical exergy as well as
exergo-economical methods, further work is required. If you are interested in
contributing, please file an issue at our GitHub page.

Commit message:

Add references to exergy paper

docs/analyses/exergy.rst, after:

Exergy analysis
===============
We have published a paper with the features described in this section. The
publication is licensed under an open-access license, download the pdf
at https://doi.org/10.3390/en15114087, also see :cite:`Witte2022`.

Fundamentals of exergy analysis
-------------------------------
Energy is a concept of the first law of thermodynamics. It cannot be destroyed.
But regarding the design and analysis of thermal systems, the idea that
something can be destroyed is useful. According to the second law of
thermodynamics, the conversion of heat and internal energy into work is
limited. This constraint and the idea of destruction are applied to introduce a
new concept: "Exergy".

Exergy can be destroyed due to irreversibilities and is able to describe the
quality of different energy forms. The difference in quality of different forms
of energy shall be illustrated by the following example. 1 kJ of electrical
energy is clearly more valuable than 1 kJ of energy in a glass of water at
ambient temperature :cite:`Bejan1996`.

In literature, exergy is defined as follows:

    *"An opportunity for doing useful work exists whenever two systems at
    different states are placed in communication, for in principle work can be
    developed as the two are allowed to come into equilibrium. When one of the
    two systems is a suitably idealized system called an environment and the
    other is some system of interest, exergy is the maximum theoretical useful
    work (shaft work or electrical work) obtainable as the systems interact to
    equilibrium, heat transfer occuring with the environment only."*
    :cite:`Bejan1996`

Terminology
-----------
The definitions and nomenclature of the exergy analysis in TESPy are based on
:cite:`Tsatsaronis2007`. The exergy destruction ratios are described in more
detail in :cite:`Bejan1996`. Since the current version of the exergy analysis
in TESPy only focuses on physical exergy and does not include reaction
processes yet, chemical exergy is not considered. Changes in kinetic and
potential exergy are neglected and therefore not considered as well.

.. list-table:: Terminology
    :widths: 20 20 10 50
    :header-rows: 1
    :class: tight-table

    * - variable
      - name
      - symbol
      - description
    * - :code:`ex_physical`, :code:`Ex_physical`
      - (specific) physical exergy
      - :math:`e^\mathrm{PH}`, :math:`E^\mathrm{PH}`
      - due to the deviation of the temperature and pressure of the system from
        those of the environment
    * - :code:`ex_therm`, :code:`Ex_therm`
      - (specific) thermal exergy
      - :math:`e^\mathrm{T}`, :math:`E^\mathrm{T}`
      - associated with the system temperature
    * - :code:`ex_mech`, :code:`Ex_mech`
      - (specific) mechanical exergy
      - :math:`e^\mathrm{M}`, :math:`E^\mathrm{M}`
      - associated with the system pressure
    * - :code:`E_P`
      - product exergy
      - :math:`\dot{E}_\mathrm{P}`
      - represents the desired result(expressed in terms of exergy) generated
        by the system being considered represents the resources (expressed in
        terms of exergy)
    * - :code:`E_F`
      - fuel exergy
      - :math:`\dot{E}_\mathrm{F}`
      - represents the resources (expressed in terms of exergy) expended to
        provide the product exergy
    * - :code:`E_D`
      - exergy destruction
      - :math:`\dot{E}_\mathrm{D}`
      - thermodynamic inefficienies associated with the irreversibilities
        (entropy generation) within the system boundaries
    * - :code:`E_L`
      - exergy loss
      - :math:`\dot{E}_\mathrm{L}`
      - thermodynamic inefficienies associated with the transfer of exergy
        through material and energy streams to the surroundings
    * - :code:`epsilon`
      - exergetic efficiency
      - :math:`\varepsilon`
      - ratio between product exergy and fuel exergy
    * - :code:`y_D,k`
      - exergy destruction ratio
      - :math:`y_\mathrm{D}`
      - rate of exergy destruction in a component compared to the exergy rate
        of the fuel provided to the overall system
    * - :code:`y*_D,k`
      - exergy destruction ratio
      - :math:`y^*_\mathrm{D}`
      - rate of exergy destruction in a component compared to the total exergy
        destruction rate within the system

.. note::

    The generic exergy analysis balance equations have been implemented into
    TESPy for all components, that do not implement chemical reactions. The
    equations for exergy balances at temperature values below the ambient
    temperature are implemented as well, but are not yet fully tested.

Tutorial
--------
In this short tutorial, an exergy analysis is carried out for the so called
"Solar Energy Generating System" (SEGS). The full python script is available on
GitHub in an individual repository: https://github.com/fwitte/SEGS_exergy.

Two other full code examples are to be found at:

- Supercritical CO\ :sub:`2` power cycle: https://github.com/fwitte/sCO2_exergy
- Refrigeration machine: https://github.com/fwitte/refrigeration_cycle_exergy

SEGS consists of three main systems, the solar field, the steam cycle and the
cooling water system. In the solar field Therminol VP1 (TVP1) is used as heat transfer
fluid. In the steam generator and reheater the TVP1 is cooled down to evaporate
and overheat/reheat the water of the steam cycle. The turbine is divided in a
high pressure turbine and a low pressure turbine, which are further subdivided
in 2 parts (high pressure turbine) and 5 parts. In between the stages steam is
exctracted for preheating. Finally, the main condenser of the steam cycle is
connected to an air cooling tower. The figure below shows the topology of the
model.

.. figure:: /api/_images/SEGS_flowsheet.svg
    :align: center
    :alt: Topology of the Solar Energy Generating System (SEGS)

The input data are based on literature :cite:`Kearney1988`, which provides
measured data. Some parameters are however taken from a follow-up publication,
as the original data show some inconsistencies, e.g. higher enthalpy at the low
pressure turbine's last stage outlet than at its inlet :cite:`Lippke1995`. As
mentioned, you can find all data in the respective GitHub repository.

TESPy model
^^^^^^^^^^^
The TESPy model consists of 53 components. The feed water tank serves as mixing
preheater, thus can be modeled using a merge. All other components are modeled
highlighted in the flowsheet. The preheaters and the main condenser are modeled
as :code:`Condenser` instances, while all other heat exchangers are modeled
using :code:`HeatExchanger` instances. For the solar field a parabolic trough
is implemented, calculating the surface area required for the provision of the
heat input at optimal conditions.

All components are flagged with the :code:`fkt_group` parameter, which will
automatically create functional groups (component groups) for the exergy
analysis Grassmann diagram. The specification of this parameter is not required
for the exergy analysis itself, but helps to simplify the automatically
generated diagram. Components not assigned to any functional group will form
their respective group.

Regarding parameter specification, the following parameters are specified:

- isentropic efficiency values
- electrical conversion efficiencies of motors and generators
- terminal temperature difference values at preheaters
- pressure values of steam extraction
- pressure values in the preheating route
- pressure losses in the heat exchangers
- solar fluid temperature
- steam cycle live steam and reheat temperatures
- some temperature values in the cooling water system

The ambient state is defined as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    pamb = 1.013
    Tamb = 25

Pressure and temperature of the ambient air in the cooling tower are equal to
these values in the script provided.

For the exact values of the component parameters please see in the referenced
python script.

Due to the complexity of the plant, the solver sometimes struggles when given bad
starting values. Therefore, the TESPy model is built in two steps. After
solving the initial setup without both of the high pressure preheater
subcoolers, the missing connections and components are added in a second step
and the model is again solved.

Analysis setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
After the simulation of the plant, the exergy analysis can be carried out.
To perform it, all exergy streams leaving or entering the network's system
boundaries have to be defined by the user. These are:

- fuel exergy :code:`E_F`
- product exergy :code:`E_P`
- exergy loss streams :code:`E_L`
- internal exergy streams not bound to connections :code:`internal_busses`

In case of the solar thermal power plant, the fuel exergy is the heat input at
the parabolic trough. The product is the electricity produced by the plant,
i.e. the electricity generated by the turbine generators minus the electricity
consumed by the pumps and the fan. Lastly, exergy loss streams are the hot air
leaving the cooling tower and the cold air entering the cooling tower fan from
the ambient. Similar to the electricity consumption of the fan and pumps the
cold air will be taken into account as negative value for the total exergy
loss.

.. code-block:: python

    power = Bus('total output power')
    power.add_comps({'comp': hpt1, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': hpt2, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt1, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt2, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt3, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt4, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': lpt5, 'char': 0.97, 'base': 'component'},
                    {'comp': fwp, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'},
                    {'comp': condpump, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'},
                    {'comp': ptpump, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'},
                    {'comp': cwp, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'},
                    {'comp': fan, 'char': 0.95, 'base': 'bus'})

    heat_input_bus = Bus('heat input')
    heat_input_bus.add_comps({'comp': pt, 'base': 'bus'})

    exergy_loss_bus = Bus('exergy loss')
    exergy_loss_bus.add_comps({'comp': air_in, 'base': 'bus'}, {'comp': air_out})

    SEGSvi.add_busses(power, heat_input_bus, exergy_loss_bus)

In order to define these values a list of busses representing the individual
exergy streams is passed when creating the ExergyAnalysis instance.

.. code-block:: python

    ean = ExergyAnalysis(SEGSvi, E_P=[power], E_F=[heat_input_bus], E_L=[exergy_loss_bus])

In this case, the Bus :code:`power` represents the product exergy, the Bus
:code:`heat_input_bus` the fuel exergy of the solar field and the Bus
:code:`exergy_loss_bus` the exergy lost with the hot air leaving the cooling
tower. An example application using the :code:`internal_busses` can be found in
the API documentation of class :py:class:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis`.

After the setup of the exergy analysis, the
:py:meth:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis.analyse` method expects the
definition of the ambient state, thus ambient temperature and ambient pressure.
With these information, the analysis is carried out automatically. The value
of the ambient conditions is passed in the network's (:code:`nw`) corresponding
units.

.. code-block:: python

    ean.analyse(pamb=pamb, Tamb=Tamb)

Using the same :py:class:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis` instance, it is
possible to run the analysis again with a different ambient state. The data
generated by the analysis will automatically update, e.g. changing the ambient
state temperature value to 15 °C.

.. code-block:: python

    ean.analyse(pamb=pamb, Tamb=15)


.. note::

    If the network's topology changed a new instance of the
    :code:`ExergyAnalysis` class needs to be defined.

Checking consistency
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
An automatic check of consistency is performed by the analysis. The sum of all
exergy destruction values of the network's components and the exergy
destruction on the respective busses is calculated. On top of that, fuel and
product exergy values as well as exergy loss are determined. The total exergy
destruction must therefore be equal to the fuel exergy minus product exergy and
minus exergy loss. The deviation of that equation is then calculated and
checked versus a threshold value of :math:`10^{-3}` (to componesate for
rounding errors).

.. math::

    \dot{E}_\mathrm{D} = \dot{E}_\mathrm{F} - \dot{E}_\mathrm{P} -
    \dot{E}_\mathrm{L}

    \Delta \dot{E} = \dot{E}_\mathrm{F} - \dot{E}_\mathrm{P} -
    \dot{E}_\mathrm{L} - \dot{E}_\mathrm{D}

    \Delta \dot{E} \leq 10^{-3}

.. note::

    If the exergy analysis is carried out on a converged simulation and the
    analysis is set up correctly, this equation must be True. Otherwise, an
    error will be printed to the console, which means:

    - The simulation of your plant did not converge or
    - the exergy analysis has not been set up correctly. You should
      check, if the definition of the exergy streams :code:`E_F`, :code:`E_P`,
      :code:`E_L` and :code:`internal_busses` is correct.

    If you suspect a bug in the calculation, you are welcome to submit an issue
    on our GitHub page.

Printing the results is possible with the
:py:meth:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis.print_results` method. The
results are printed in six individual tables:

- connections
- components
- busses
- aggregation (aggregation of components and the respective busses)
- network
- groups (functional groups)

By default, all of these tables are printed to the prompt. It is possible to
deselect the tables, e.g. by passing :code:`groups=False` to the method call.

.. code-block:: python

    ean.print_results(groups=False, connections=False)

For the component related tables, i.e. busses, components, aggregation and
groups, the data are sorted in descending order for the given exergy destruction value
of the individual entry. The component data contain fuel exergy, product exergy
and exergy destruction values related to the component itself ignoring losses
that might occur on the busses, for example, mechanical or electrical
conversion losses in motors and generators. The bus data contain the respective
information related to the conversion losses on the busses only. The
aggregation data contain both, the component and the bus data. For instance,
a turbine driving a generator will have the electrical energy delivered by the
generator as product exergy value. The same component's exergy product without
considering the mechanical or electrical conversion losses is the shaft power
delivered by the turbine. From the generator's perspective, this is the fuel
exergy, while the product is the electrical energy.

.. note::

  Please note, that in contrast to the component and bus data, group data do
  not contain fuel and product exergy as well as exergy efficiency. Instead all
  exergy streams entering the system borders of the component group and all
  exergy streams leaving the system borders are calculated. On this basis, a
  graphical representation of the exergy flows in the network can be generated
  in the form of a Grassmann diagram.

Accessing the data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The underlying data for the tabular printouts are stored in
`pandas DataFrames <https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/user_guide/dsintro.html>`_.
Therefore, you can easily access and process these data. To access these use
the following code snippet.

.. code-block:: python

    connection_data = ean.connection_data
    bus_data = ean.bus_data
    component_data = ean.component_data
    aggregation_data = ean.aggregation_data
    network_data = ean.network_data
    group_data = ean.group_data

Lastly, the analysis also provides an input data generator for plotly's
`sankey diagram <https://plotly.com/python/sankey-diagram/>`_.

Plotting
^^^^^^^^
To use the plotly library, you'll need to install it first. Please check the
respective documentation on plotly's documentation. Generating a sankey
diagram is then easily done:

.. code-block:: python

    import plotly.graph_objects as go

    links, nodes = ean.generate_plotly_sankey_input()

    fig = go.Figure(go.Sankey(
        arrangement='snap',
        node={
            'label': nodes,
            'pad':11,
            'color': 'orange'},
        link=links))
    fig.show()

.. figure:: /api/_images/SEGS_sankey.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Sankey diagram of the Soler Energy Generating System (SEGS)

The :py:meth:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis.generate_plotly_sankey_input`
method provides the links and the corresponding nodes for the diagram. Colors
and node order are assigned automatically but can be changed. Additionally, a
threshold value for the minimum value of an exergy stream can be specified to
exclude relatively small values from display.

.. code-block:: python

    ean.generate_plotly_sankey_input(
        node_order=[
            'E_F', 'heat input', 'SF', 'SG', 'LPT', 'RH', 'HPT',
            'total output power', 'CW', 'LPP', 'FWP', 'HPP', 'exergy loss',
            'E_L', 'E_P', 'E_D'
        ],
        colors={'E_F': 'rgba(100, 100, 100, 0.5)'},
        display_thresold=1)

The coloring of the links is defined by the type of the exergy stream (bound
to a specific fluid, fuel exergy, product exergy, exergy loss, exergy
destruction or internal exergy streams not bound to mass flows). Therefore
colors can be assigned to these types of streams.

.. note::

    - The :code:`node_order` must contain all exergy streams, thus

      - ALL component group labels (you can find the labels in the group data
        results printout),
      - lables of the busses used in the definitions of the analysis and
      - :code:`'E_F'`, :code:`'E_P'`, :code:`'E_D'` as well as :code:`'E_L'`

    - The colors dictionary works with the following keys:

      - :code:`'E_F'`, :code:`'E_P'`, :code:`'E_D'`, :code:`'E_L'`
      - all labels of the busses used in the definition of the internal exergy
        streams
      - all names of the network's fluid
      - :code:`'mix'` for any mixture of two or more fluids

    - Keys missing in the dictionary will automatically assign a color to the
      link.
    - The respective value are strings representing colors in the RGBA format,
      e.g. :code:`'rgba(100, 100, 100, 0.5)'`.

.. note::

    Links with negative exergy flow, i.e. when the value of mechanical exergy
    is negative due to pressure lower than ambient pressure and total exergy
    is still negative, cannot be displayed by the sankey diagram.

The underlying exergy stream data is saved in a dictionary, if you want to
handle the data by yourself.

.. code-block:: python

    sankey_data = ean.sankey_data


Conclusion
----------
An additional example is available in the API documentation of the
:py:class:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis` class. Full testing of exergy
analysis at temperature levels below the ambient temperature will be
implemented soon. Regarding the implementation of chemical exergy as well as
exergo-economical methods, further work is required. If you are interested in
contributing, please file an issue at our GitHub page.
