docs/development/what.rst, before:

.. _tespy_development_what_label:

What can I contribute?
======================
TESPy has been developed mainly by Francesco Witte at the University of Applied
Sciences Flensburg - and a lot of free time. We hope that many people can make
use of this project and that it will be a community driven project in the
future, as users might demand special components or flexible implementations of
characteristics, custom equations, basically what ever you can think of.

Therefore, we would like to invite you to contribute in this process, share your
ideas and experience and maybe start developing the software. Your solutions
may help other users as well. Contributing to the development of TESPy is easy
and will help the development team and all other users of the software. If you
start to develop features it may also improve the quality of your code as it
will be reviewed by other developers.

There are a variety of different ways you can contribute to the development,
amongst others, these may be:

Contribute to the documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The easiest way of joining the developing process is by improving the
documentation. If you spot mistakes or think, the documentation could be more
precise or clear in some sections, feel free to fix it and create a pull
request on the GitHub repository.

If you come across typos or grammatical mistakes or want to improve
comprehensibility of the documentation, make your adjustments or suggestions
and create a pull request for the dev branch. We appreciate your contribution!

Share your projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You have used the software in your research paper or project, maybe even in a
real world application? We would love to feature your project on our
:ref:`Example Applications <tespy_examples_label>` page. Please reach out to
us by opening a new issue on our GitHub page.

Add new component equations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The components equations represent the behavior of each component. Do you miss
equations? Open a discussion on the GitHub discussions page or add them to your
fork of TESPy and create a pull request on the dev branch.

Add component characteristics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Another highly appreciated way for you to contribute is the provision of new
and/or improved characteristics for single components, such as compressor
efficiency maps, characteristics for turbine efficiency or heat transfer
coefficients etc..

The component characteristics represent large added value for your calculation.
If you have detailed information on components offdesign behavior - even for
specific cases - it will improve the results. Every user can benefit from this
knowledge, and thus we are very happy to discuss the implementation of new
characteristics.

Commit message:

Add few words towards support methods

docs/development/what.rst, after:

.. _tespy_development_what_label:

What can I contribute?
======================
TESPy has been developed mainly by Francesco Witte at the University of Applied
Sciences Flensburg - and since 2021 with a lot of free time. The goal is, that
many people can make use of this project and that it will be a community driven
project in the future, as users might demand special components or flexible
implementations of characteristics, custom equations, basically what ever you
can think of.

Therefore, I would like to invite you to contribute in this process, share your
ideas and experience and maybe start developing the software. Your solutions
may help other users as well. Contributing to the development of TESPy is easy
and will help the development team and all other users of the software. If you
start to develop features it may also improve the quality of your code as it
will be reviewed by other developers.

There are a variety of different ways you can contribute to the development,
amongst others, these may be:

Contribute to the documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The easiest way of joining the developing process is by improving the
documentation. If you spot mistakes or think, the documentation could be more
precise or clear in some sections, feel free to fix it and create a pull
request on the GitHub repository.

If you come across typos or grammatical mistakes or want to improve
comprehensibility of the documentation, make your adjustments or suggestions
and create a pull request for the dev branch. We appreciate your contribution!

Share your projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You have used the software in your research paper or project, maybe even in a
real world application? We would love to feature your project on our
:ref:`Example Applications <tespy_examples_label>` page. Please reach out to
us by opening a new issue on our GitHub page.

Add new component equations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The components equations represent the behavior of each component. Do you miss
equations? Open a discussion on the GitHub discussions page or add them to your
fork of TESPy and create a pull request on the dev branch.

Sponsor the development
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
As mentioned above, I maintain and develop this project in my free time. If you
would like to support me by sponsoring a coffee for late night sessions or need
direct support for your projects using TESPy, you sponsor me on GitHub
https://github.com/fwitte or reach out to me via e-mail.

Add component characteristics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Another highly appreciated way for you to contribute is the provision of new
and/or improved characteristics for single components, such as compressor
efficiency maps, characteristics for turbine efficiency or heat transfer
coefficients etc..

The component characteristics represent large added value for your calculation.
If you have detailed information on components offdesign behavior - even for
specific cases - it will improve the results. Every user can benefit from this
knowledge, and thus we are very happy to discuss the implementation of new
characteristics.
