doc/installation.rst, before:

.. _installation_and_setup_label:

######################
Installation and setup
######################

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:
    :backlinks: top


Following you find guidelines for the installation process for different
operation systems.

Linux
=====

Installing Python 3
-------------------

TESPy is a Python package, thus it requires you to have Python 3 installed.
Most Linux distributions will have Python 3 in their repository. Use the
specific software management to install it. If you are using Ubuntu/Debian try
executing the following code in your terminal:

.. code:: console

  sudo apt-get install python3

You can also download different versions of Python via
https://www.python.org/downloads/.

Having Python 3 installed
-------------------------

.. code:: console

  pip install tespy

To use pip you have to install the pypi package. Normally pypi is part of your
virtual environment.

.. _virtualenv_label:

Using virtualenv instead of system wide Python
----------------------------------------------

Instead of installing TESPy with pip to your system Python, you can instead
install TESPy to a virtual Python environment.

 1. Install virtualenv using the package management of your Linux distribution,
    pip install or install it from source
    (`see virtualenv documentation <https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/>`_)
 2. Open terminal to create and activate a virtual environment by typing:

    .. code-block:: console

       virtualenv -p /usr/bin/python3 your_env_name
       source your_env_name/bin/activate

 3. In terminal type: :code:`pip install tespy`

Warning: If you have an older version of virtualenv you should update pip
:code:`pip install --upgrade pip`.

.. _tespy_installation_windows_label:

Windows
=======

Having Python 3 installed
-------------------------

If you already have a working Python 3 environment you can install TESPy by
using pip. We recommend you installing the package in a virtual environment.
You can use virtualenv (:ref:`see here for instructions <virtualenv_label>`)
or a virtual environment e. g. in :ref:`Anaconda <anaconda_label>`.

TESPy requires the CoolProp python package, which will be installed
automatically. As it is build from C++, you need to have Microsoft Visual
Studio C++ Build Tools 14.0 installed. Try installing TESPy with the following
code in the command window of your python environment:

.. code:: console

  pip install tespy

If you get an error within the installation of the CoolProp package, install
the C++ Build Tools first and then restart the installation. Also, if pip is
not part of your python environment, you have to install the pypi package.

.. _anaconda_label:

Using Anaconda
--------------

 1. Download latest `Anaconda <https://www.continuum.io/downloads#windows>`_
    for Python 3.x (64 or 32 bit).
 2. Install Anaconda
 3. Open 'Anaconda Prompt' to create and activate a virtual environment by
    typing:

    .. code-block:: console

       conda create -n yourenvname python=3.x
       activate yourenvname

 4. In the active Anaconda Prompt type: :code:`pip install tespy`
 5. If the installation of CoolProp fails, make shure, you have
    Microsoft Visual Stuido C++ Build Tools 14.0 installed on your computer.


Mac OSX
=======

Installation instructions for Mac OSX are not available, yet. If you want to
share your knwolegde on the installation and fill this gap, feel free to
contact us.

Commit message:

Update installation instructions for Python 3.8

doc/installation.rst, after:

.. _installation_and_setup_label:

######################
Installation and setup
######################

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:
    :backlinks: top


Following you find guidelines for the installation process for different
operation systems.

.. note::

    Due to Python 3.8 incompability of the fluid property software (CoolProp)
    in version 6.3.0, we have implemented a Python version restriction to
    Python 3.7 at maximum. If you build CoolProp manually, it is possible
    to use Python 3.8. For more information on the manual CoolProp installation
    refer to these instructions:
    http://www.coolprop.org/coolprop/wrappers/Python/index.html#python.

Linux
=====

Installing Python 3
-------------------

TESPy is a Python package, thus it requires you to have Python 3 installed.
Most Linux distributions will have Python 3 in their repository. Use the
specific software management to install it. If you are using Ubuntu/Debian try
executing the following code in your terminal:

.. code:: console

  sudo apt-get install python3

You can also download different versions of Python via
https://www.python.org/downloads/.

Having Python 3 installed
-------------------------

.. code:: console

  pip install tespy

To use pip you have to install the pypi package. Normally pypi is part of your
virtual environment.

.. _virtualenv_label:

Using virtualenv instead of system wide Python
----------------------------------------------

Instead of installing TESPy with pip to your system Python, you can instead
install TESPy to a virtual Python environment.

 1. Install virtualenv using the package management of your Linux distribution,
    pip install or install it from source
    (`see virtualenv documentation <https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/>`_)
 2. Open terminal to create and activate a virtual environment by typing:

    .. code-block:: console

       virtualenv -p /usr/bin/python3 your_env_name
       source your_env_name/bin/activate

 3. In terminal type: :code:`pip install tespy`

Warning: If you have an older version of virtualenv you should update pip
:code:`pip install --upgrade pip`.

.. _tespy_installation_windows_label:

Windows
=======

Having Python 3 installed
-------------------------

If you already have a working Python 3 environment you can install TESPy by
using pip. We recommend you installing the package in a virtual environment.
You can use virtualenv (:ref:`see here for instructions <virtualenv_label>`)
or a virtual environment e. g. in :ref:`Anaconda <anaconda_label>`.

TESPy requires the CoolProp python package, which will be installed
automatically. As it is build from C++, you need to have Microsoft Visual
Studio C++ Build Tools 14.0 installed. Try installing TESPy with the following
code in the command window of your python environment:

.. code:: console

  pip install tespy

If you get an error within the installation of the CoolProp package, install
the C++ Build Tools first and then restart the installation. Also, if pip is
not part of your python environment, you have to install the pypi package.

.. _anaconda_label:

Using Anaconda
--------------

 1. Download latest `Anaconda <https://www.continuum.io/downloads#windows>`_
    for Python 3.x (64 or 32 bit).
 2. Install Anaconda
 3. Open 'Anaconda Prompt' to create and activate a virtual environment by
    typing:

    .. code-block:: console

       conda create -n yourenvname python=3.x
       activate yourenvname

 4. In the active Anaconda Prompt type: :code:`pip install tespy`
 5. If the installation of CoolProp fails, make shure, you have
    Microsoft Visual Stuido C++ Build Tools 14.0 installed on your computer.


Mac OSX
=======

Installation instructions for Mac OSX are not available, yet. If you want to
share your knwolegde on the installation and fill this gap, feel free to
contact us.
