v0.1.3 (November, 6, 2019)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Individual design path specification is available: Specify the design_path individually for single connections or a components in your network, if
  you want the individual design parameters be loaded from a different design case than the network's design case given in the network's
  design path (`PR #84 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/84>`_).
- Implement local design and local offdesign features: It is possible to design a plant while some parts of the plant are in offdesign mode. This is useful,
  e.g. when designing an extraction turbine, where the district heating condenser is designed for maximum extraction and the backpressure turbine is designed
  for minimum extraction (`PR #92 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/92>`_).
- Implement warning messages for all components, if the component's properties are out of physical bounds. The bounds can be customized when specifying a property
  by data containers (read more at :ref:`component parameter specification <tespy_modules_components_parametrisation_label>`), (`PR #85 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/85>`_).

Documentation
#############
- Change license from GPLv3 to MIT (`PR #93 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/93>`_).
- Fix unit error in component documentation for the zeta-value (`PR #93 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/93>`_).
- Improve documentation of the functions :func:`tespy.components.components.component.zeta_func` and :func:`tespy.components.components.component.zeta2_func`
  (`4291bd <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/4291bd7f32a89a90851c53ae2d7987cfb8381930>`_).

Parameter renaming
##################

Testing
#######
- Added tests for the new design path feature (`PR #84 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/84>`_).
- Implemented additional network and component tests, (`PR #86 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/86>`_).

Bug fixes
#########
- Offdesign values for connections are specified from the design case files (`PR #84 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/84>`_). Before, the offdesign values
  were the actual values of the fluid property in the last calculation (which is not necessarily the design case).
- Add debug logging message, if the enthalpy is adjusted on connections with the keyword :code:`state` specified (`PR #85 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/85>`_).

Other changes
#############
- Improved calculation speed for fluid mixture properties with the parameter T0 as starting value for root finding (`PR #84 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/84>`_).

Contributors
############

- Francesco Witte
