v0.10.0 - Rankine's Renaissance (June, 14, 2026)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

API Changes
###########
- The :code:`UA_cecchinato` group and its parameters :code:`re_exp_r`,
  :code:`re_exp_sf`, and :code:`refrigerant_index` on
  :py:class:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.sectioned.SectionedHeatExchanger`
  and
  :py:class:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.movingboundary.MovingBoundaryHeatExchanger`
  are deprecated. Use the new :code:`UA_cecchinato_hc` group with
  :code:`re_exp_hot` and :code:`re_exp_cold` instead. In the next major version
  :code:`UA_cecchinato` will adopt the hot/cold convention of
  :code:`UA_cecchinato_hc`. Setting the old parameters raises a
  :code:`FutureWarning`
  (`PR #985 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/985>`__).
- :py:meth:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.base.HeatExchanger.calc_sections`
  on :py:class:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.base.HeatExchanger`,
  :py:class:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.sectioned.SectionedHeatExchanger`,
  and
  :py:class:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.movingboundary.MovingBoundaryHeatExchanger`
  is deprecated. Section data is now computed automatically after each solve
  and exposed as
  :py:class:`~tespy.tools.data_containers.ComponentArrayProperties` attributes
  directly on the component: :code:`Q_sections`, :code:`T_hot_sections`,
  :code:`T_cold_sections`, :code:`Q_per_section`,
  :code:`lmtd_per_section`, and :code:`phases_per_section`. Each attribute
  provides :code:`.val` in the network's user-specified units and
  :code:`.val_SI` in SI units. The old return value of :code:`calc_sections()`
  (a 5-tuple in user units) is still returned but raises a :code:`FutureWarning`
  (`PR #1001 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/1001>`__).

New Features
############
- :py:meth:`~tespy.tools.fluid_properties.wrappers.FluidPropertyWrapper.phase_ph`
  is now implemented across all fluid property wrappers, returning a consistent
  set of string identifiers: :code:`"l"` (liquid), :code:`"g"` (gas),
  :code:`"tp"` (two-phase), and :code:`"sc"` (supercritical).
- Added heat transfer area calculation for the
  :py:class:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.movingboundary.MovingBoundaryHeatExchanger`
  following the moving-boundary method of :cite:`bell2015`.
- A new
  :py:class:`~tespy.tools.data_containers.ComponentArrayProperties`
  data container has been introduced for array-valued component result
  properties. It exposes :code:`.val_SI` (SI units) and :code:`.val`
  (network user units, populated by the network after each solve via
  :code:`set_val_from_SI`), following the same unit-routing pattern as
  :py:class:`~tespy.tools.data_containers.ComponentProperties`.
  This class is currently intended for result-only use and cannot be set by
  the user. Its API may change in future versions
  (`PR #1001 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/1001>`__).


Bug Fixes
#########
- Fixed specific volume calculation for mixtures containing water in condensing
  conditions (`PR #985 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/985>`__).
- Fixed :py:meth:`~tespy.connections.connection.Connection._presolve` to use
  the actual vapor quality when determining saturation pressure from a
  simultaneous T and x specification. Previously :code:`p_sat_T` (hardcoded
  Q=0.5) was used; the new :py:func:`~tespy.tools.fluid_properties.functions.p_sat_TQ`
  dispatches to the bubble or dew pressure as appropriate. For pure fluids
  there is no change in behavior
  (`PR #1004 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/1004>`__).
- Fixed :py:class:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.condenser.Condenser` to
  use the dew temperature at the hot-side inlet in
  :py:meth:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.condenser.Condenser.calculate_td_log`
  and
  :py:meth:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.condenser.Condenser.ttd_u_func`
  instead of the bubble temperature. For pure fluids there is no change in
  behavior
  (`PR #1004 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/1004>`__).
- Fixed :py:class:`~tespy.components.displacementmachinery.polynomial_compressor.PolynomialCompressor`
  EN12900 polynomial evaluation to use :py:func:`~tespy.tools.fluid_properties.functions.T_dew_p`
  for the evaporation temperature and
  :py:func:`~tespy.tools.fluid_properties.functions.T_bubble_p` for the
  condensation temperature, consistent with how reference pressures are defined
  in the polynomial generation step. For pure fluids there is no change in
  behavior
  (`PR #1004 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/1004>`__).
- Fixed :py:meth:`~tespy.tools.fluid_properties.wrappers.CoolPropWrapper.phase_ph`
  for mixture-type backends (e.g. REFPROP zeotropic mixtures) where
  :code:`calc_phase` is not implemented. Phase is now determined by comparing
  enthalpy against the bubble and dew enthalpies at the given pressure
  (`PR #1004 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/1004>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- All internal pint conversions of the form :code:`.to(...).magnitude` have
  been replaced with the equivalent but more concise :code:`.m_as(...)`
  across the codebase
  (`PR #1001 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/1001>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
