v0.10.0 - Under development
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

API Changes
###########
- Passing per-quantity unit keyword arguments to
  :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.set_attr` (e.g.
  :code:`T_unit`, :code:`p_unit`, :code:`h_unit`, ...) now raises a
  :code:`TypeError`. Use
  :py:meth:`~tespy.tools.units.Units.set_defaults` instead, e.g.
  :code:`nw.units.set_defaults(temperature='degC', pressure='bar')`.
  The shorthand :code:`"C"` for Celsius is no longer accepted; use
  :code:`"degC"` or :code:`"°C"` instead
  (`PR #968 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/968>`__).
- The :code:`power_connector_location` attribute of :code:`SimpleHeatExchanger`
  is deprecated and no longer required. Use :code:`HeatConnection` together
  with the new :code:`HeatSource` and :code:`HeatSink` components instead -
  the inlet or outlet side is detected automatically from the connection
  (`PR #961 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/961>`__).
- The :code:`Bus` class has been removed. Use :code:`PowerConnection` together
  with :code:`PowerBus`, :code:`Motor` and :code:`Generator` instead
  (`PR #964 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/964>`__).
- The :code:`rpm` parameter of
  :py:class:`~tespy.components.displacementmachinery.polynomial_compressor.PolynomialCompressor`
  is deprecated in favour of :code:`frequency`, which integrates with TESPy's
  unit framework (e.g. set :code:`"1/min"` as the network frequency unit).
  The :code:`rpm_displacement` and :code:`rpm_poly` keys in
  :code:`reference_state` are deprecated in favour of
  :code:`frequency_displacement` (Hz) and :code:`frequency_poly` (Hz). The
  :code:`displacement` key (m³/h) paired with :code:`frequency_displacement`
  remains supported, or :code:`swept_volume` (m³ per revolution) can be
  provided directly. A helper function
  :py:func:`~tespy.components.displacementmachinery.polynomial_compressor.swept_volume_from_displacement`
  is available to convert manufacturer displacement data to swept volume
  (`PR #826 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/826>`__).
- Several previously deprecated features have been removed: the
  :code:`Td_bp` parameter of :code:`Connection`, the :code:`Q_diss_rel`
  parameter of :code:`PolynomialCompressor`, the :code:`zeta="var"` option,
  the helper functions :code:`convert_to_SI` and :code:`convert_from_SI`, and
  :code:`fluid_property_data` from :code:`global_vars`
  (`PR #973 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/973>`__).
- Setting a :code:`Ref` on a :py:class:`~tespy.connections.connection.Connection`
  parameter now automatically unsets any previously specified numerical value
  for that parameter, and setting a numerical value automatically unsets any
  previously set :code:`Ref`. Both could be set simultaneously before, which
  raised a :code:`FutureWarning`.
- The :code:`char_map_pr` and :code:`char_map_eta_s` parameters of
  :py:class:`~tespy.components.turbomachinery.compressor.Compressor` are
  deprecated. Use
  :py:class:`~tespy.components.turbomachinery.turbocompressor.TurboCompressor`
  instead, which is the dedicated class providing characteristic map offdesign
  capability.
- The pygmo compatibility interface of
  :py:class:`~tespy.tools.optimization.OptimizationProblem` has been removed.
  The :code:`fitness`, :code:`get_nobj`, :code:`get_nic`, :code:`get_bounds`,
  :code:`run` and :code:`_process_generation_data` methods are no longer
  available. Use pymoo-based workflows instead (install via
  :code:`pip install tespy[opt]`).
- The built-in :code:`ExergyAnalysis` class has been removed and its
  functionality moved to the external library
  `exerpy <https://github.com/oemof/exerpy>`__. Use
  :py:meth:`tespy.models.template.ModelTemplate.run_exergy_analysis` or call
  :code:`ExergyAnalysis.from_tespy(nw, Tamb, pamb)` directly from exerpy
  (`PR #963 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/963>`__).

New Features
############
- A new :code:`f_nox` parameter has been added to
  :py:class:`~tespy.components.combustion.base.CombustionChamber` and derived
  combustion components. Setting it enables nitric oxide (NO) formation
  modelling: the value represents the mass-based NO generation rate (mass of NO
  created per unit mass of total fuel and air input). Requires
  `pyromat <https://github.com/chmarti1/PYroMat>`__ being installed as fluid
  property backend
  (`PR #904 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/904>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- Internal Newton solver improvements
  (`PR #987 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/987>`__):

  - The CPU Jacobian solve now uses row- and column-scaled
    :code:`numpy.linalg.solve` instead of explicit matrix inversion via
    :code:`numpy.linalg.inv`, improving numerical stability and performance.
  - The dense incidence matrix is now built once before the Newton loop instead
    of being rebuilt on every iteration.
  - Jacobian singularity diagnosis has been extracted into a dedicated
    :code:`_diagnose_singularity` method, separated from the matrix solve in
    :code:`_invert_jacobian`.
  - Structural singularity detection now uses :code:`numpy.linalg.matrix_rank`
    instead of :code:`numpy.linalg.det`, which is numerically stable for
    arbitrarily sized matrices.
  - :py:class:`~tespy.tools.fluid_properties.wrappers.CoolPropWrapper` now
    caches the last :code:`AS.update` call and skips redundant updates when
    the same input pair and values are requested consecutively.
  - :py:meth:`~tespy.connections.connection.Connection.get_fluid_data` now
    caches and reuses the fluid data dict across calls, only rebuilding it
    when the fluid set changes (e.g. in combustion components).
  - :py:meth:`~tespy.connections.connection.Connection.calc_results` now skips
    the unit conversion for parameters that have not been fixed by the user,
    avoiding redundant pint conversions during postprocessing.
  - :py:class:`~tespy.components.heat_exchangers.base.HeatExchanger` now
    caches temperature values computed in :code:`_get_T_at_steps` by
    :code:`(p, h)` key, so that unperturbed sides of the heat exchanger are
    not recomputed during finite-difference Jacobian evaluation. The cache is
    cleared at the start of each solve via :code:`_preprocess`.

- Support for Python 3.10 has been dropped.

- Installation instructions now recommend
  `uv <https://docs.astral.sh/uv/>`__ as the primary package manager
  (`PR #967 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/967>`__).
- Companion :code:`print_*` methods have been added for all debugging
  inspection methods on :py:class:`~tespy.networks.network.Network`:
  :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.print_variables_before_presolve`,
  :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.print_presolved_variables`,
  :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.print_variables`,
  :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.print_presolved_equations`,
  :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.print_equations`,
  :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.print_equations_with_dependents`,
  and :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.print_incidence_matrix`.
  Error messages that reference variables or equations now use the same
  human-readable formatting as these print methods
  (`PR #969 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/969>`__).
- :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.get_ude` has been added,
  analogous to :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.get_comp` and
  :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.get_conn`, to retrieve a
  :code:`UserDefinedEquation` by label. Not found labels currently return
  :code:`None`, they will raise a :code:`KeyError` in a future version
  (`PR #966 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/966>`__).
- :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.save` now accepts an
  :code:`as_dict=True` flag to return the network state as a plain
  :code:`dict`, which can be passed directly as :code:`design_path` or
  :code:`init_path` in a subsequent :meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.solve`
  call without writing to disk. Passing :code:`None` without :code:`as_dict=True`
  still works but is deprecated
  (`PR #962 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/962>`__).
- Mixing rules are now registered via a :code:`MixingRuleRegistry`, making it
  possible to add custom mixing rules at runtime
  (`PR #960 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/960>`__).
- You can now pass a :code:`postproc_func` argument to
  :py:meth:`~tespy.models.template.ModelTemplate.sensitivity_analysis`, which
  accepts any callable :code:`postproc_func(model) -> dict | None` to be
  executed after each solve step
  (`PR #963 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/963>`__).
- The automatic y-axis limits of
  :py:meth:`~tespy.models.template.ModelTemplate.plot_Ts_diagram_matplotlib`
  and
  :py:meth:`~tespy.models.template.ModelTemplate.plot_logph_diagram_matplotlib`
  now extend to at least the fluid's critical temperature or critical pressure
  respectively, so the two-phase dome is always fully visible when no explicit
  :code:`ylim` is passed
  (`PR #963 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/963>`__).
- Change outlet 1 description to saturated gas constraint for DropletSeparator
  (`PR #977 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/977>`__).
- Component parameters can now have a :code:`calc` method, which is
  automatically executed in postprocessing to assign the respective SI value to
  the parameter (`PR #980 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/980>`__).
- Fix logging message in connection preprocessing
  (`PR #988 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/988>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.export` and
  :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.save` now create the target
  directory if it does not exist yet
  (`PR #965 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/965>`__).
- :py:meth:`~tespy.networks.network.Network.save_csv` no longer writes
  :code:`Component` CSV files inside the :code:`Connection` subdirectory
  when both are exported together
  (`PR #966 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/966>`__).
- :py:meth:`~tespy.connections.connection.Connection._adjust_to_two_phase` was
  not working correctly with :code:`td_dew` or :code:`td_bubble` equal to zero
  (`PR #971 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/971>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
- `@HaSchneider <https://github.com/HaSchneider>`__
- `@ronitd07 <https://github.com/ronitd07>`__
- `@Flefays <https://github.com/Flefays>`__
