v0.2.1 - Fourier's Fable (February, 7 2020)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Back end modifications in order to improve calculation speed. For the results
  see (`PR #147 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/147>`_).

Documentation
#############
- Fixes in code and docstrings to meet PEP8 guidelines
  (`PR #143 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/143>`_).
- Update the class documentations of component and connection classes
  (`PR #146 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/146>`_).

Parameter renaming
##################

Testing
#######
- Improve the heat pump test
  (`PR #150 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/150>`_).

Bug fixes
#########
- Prevent pandas 1.0.0 installation due to bug in the :code:`to_csv()` method
  (bug will be fixed in
  `PR #31513 <https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas/pull/31513>`_ of pandas).
  Additionally,the version requirements of third party packages have been
  updated to prevent future bugs resulting from possible API changes
  (`PR #146 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/146>`_).
- There was a bug in the heat exchanger kA-functions (
  :py:meth:`tespy.components.heat_exchangers.simple.kA_func`,
  :py:meth:`tespy.components.heat_exchangers.base.kA_func` and
  :py:meth:`tespy.components.heat_exchangers.condenser.kA_func`). The factors
  for the heat transfer coefficient should not simultaneously amplify the
  value but instead with their inverse.

  .. math::

      f_{kA} = \frac{2}{\frac{1}{f_{kA,1}} + \frac{1}{f_{kA,2}}}

  For simple heat exchangers, :math:`f_{kA,2}` will be equal to 1
  (`PR #150 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/150>`_).

Other changes
#############
- Replacing some of the characteristic lines by generic ones. The simulation
  results using the default lines might slightly differ from the results using
  the original defaults (`PR #149 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/149>`_).

Contributors
############

- Francesco Witte (@fwitte)
- @maltefritz
