docs/whats_new/v0-3-5.rst, before:

v0.3.5 - Someversion (Somemonth, Someday, Someyear)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Add a method :code:`get_plotting_data` to each component to export the input
  data required by FluProDia in order to generate the data required to display
  state changes in the components in a fluid property diagram. Each component
  returns a nested dictionary containing the respective data. E.g. the return
  value of a :code:`valve`:

  .. code-block:: bash

      {1: {
          'isoline_property': 'h',
          'isoline_value': 773.8970004397456,
          'isoline_value_end': 773.8970004397456,
          'starting_point_property': 'p',
          'starting_point_value': 51.164150405253665,
          'ending_point_property': 'p',
          'ending_point_value': 6.831002318100345
     }}

  The diagrams could look like this:

  .. figure:: api/_images/logph_diagram_states.svg
      :align: center

      Figure: logph diagram of NH3 with a simple heat pump cycle.

  .. figure:: api/_images/Ts_diagram_states.svg
      :align: center

      Figure: Ts diagram of NH3 with a simple heat pump cycle.

  For more information see the respective
  :ref:`documentation section <FluProDia_label>`
  (`PR #234 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/234>`_).

- Add a flag to deactivate calculation of all component equations in every
  iteration. This improves stability in some cases but may reduce calculation
  speed (`PR #226 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/226>`_). To deactivate
  simply specify on calling the
  :py:meth:`tespy.networks.networks.network.solve` method:

  .. code-block:: python

      mynetwork.solve('design', always_all_equations=False)

- Add a flag use cuda instead of numpy for matrix inversion. With cuda matrix
  inversion is outsourced to the graphics card. Using cuda additionally
  requires :code:`cupy` installed on your machine
  (`PR #226 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/226>`_). To activate simply
  specify on calling the
  :py:meth:`tespy.networks.networks.network.solve` method:

  .. code-block:: python

      mynetwork.solve('design', use_cuda=True)

  For more information on :code:`cupy` visit the online 
  `documentation <https://docs.cupy.dev/en/stable/index.html>`_.

Documentation
#############

Bug Fixes
#########
- Fix a bug, where checking if parameters are numeric in the :code:`set_attr()`
  methods of classes connection, bus and component failed in case special numpy
  number types were passed
  (`#daa1ecb <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/daa1ecb>`_,
  `#b420396 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/b420396>`_).

Other Changes
#############
.. list-table:: Adjust value limits for some component parameters
   :widths: 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - component
     - parameter
     - new value
   * - heat_exchanger_simple
     - :code:`zeta.max_val`
     - 1e15
   * -
     - :code:`ks.max_val` (for Hazen-Williams equation)
     - 200
   * - valve
     - :code:`zeta.max_val`
     - 1e15

- On some machines the coloring of the results printout does not work and
  displaces the table in an ugly way. To avoid this, the coloring is changed to
  optional (`PR #229 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/229>`_). Use the
  following line for non-colored printouts:

  .. code-block:: python

      mynetwork.print_results(colored=False)

- An error message is raised in case the user specifies a fluid vector
  containing fluids, that are not part of the network's fluid list
  (`PR #233 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/233>`_).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`_)
- `@jbueck <https://github.com/jbueck>`_
- Markus Brandt (`@MarBrandt <https://github.com/MarBrandt>`_)

Commit message:

Add comment on calcuilation times

docs/whats_new/v0-3-5.rst, after:

v0.3.5 - Someversion (Somemonth, Someday, Someyear)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Add a method :code:`get_plotting_data` to each component to export the input
  data required by FluProDia in order to generate the data required to display
  state changes in the components in a fluid property diagram. Each component
  returns a nested dictionary containing the respective data. E.g. the return
  value of a :code:`valve`:

  .. code-block:: bash

      {1: {
          'isoline_property': 'h',
          'isoline_value': 773.8970004397456,
          'isoline_value_end': 773.8970004397456,
          'starting_point_property': 'p',
          'starting_point_value': 51.164150405253665,
          'ending_point_property': 'p',
          'ending_point_value': 6.831002318100345
     }}

  The diagrams could look like this:

  .. figure:: api/_images/logph_diagram_states.svg
      :align: center

      Figure: logph diagram of NH3 with a simple heat pump cycle.

  .. figure:: api/_images/Ts_diagram_states.svg
      :align: center

      Figure: Ts diagram of NH3 with a simple heat pump cycle.

  For more information see the respective
  :ref:`documentation section <FluProDia_label>`
  (`PR #234 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/234>`_).

- Add a flag to deactivate calculation of all component equations in every
  iteration. This improves stability in some cases but may reduce calculation
  speed (`PR #226 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/226>`_). To deactivate
  simply specify on calling the
  :py:meth:`tespy.networks.networks.network.solve` method:

  .. code-block:: python

      mynetwork.solve('design', always_all_equations=False)

- Add a flag use cuda instead of numpy for matrix inversion. With cuda matrix
  inversion is outsourced to the graphics card. Using cuda additionally
  requires :code:`cupy` installed on your machine
  (`PR #226 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/226>`_). To activate simply
  specify on calling the
  :py:meth:`tespy.networks.networks.network.solve` method:

  .. code-block:: python

      mynetwork.solve('design', use_cuda=True)

  For more information on :code:`cupy` visit the online
  `documentation <https://docs.cupy.dev/en/stable/index.html>`_.

  .. note::

      In general, calculation time depends on many factors of your local
      machine. You should try and check, if using cuda or disabling always all
      equations benefits your calculation times individually.

Documentation
#############

Bug Fixes
#########
- Fix a bug, where checking if parameters are numeric in the :code:`set_attr()`
  methods of classes connection, bus and component failed in case special numpy
  number types were passed
  (`#daa1ecb <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/daa1ecb>`_,
  `#b420396 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/b420396>`_).

Other Changes
#############
.. list-table:: Adjust value limits for some component parameters
   :widths: 25 25 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - component
     - parameter
     - new value
   * - heat_exchanger_simple
     - :code:`zeta.max_val`
     - 1e15
   * -
     - :code:`ks.max_val` (for Hazen-Williams equation)
     - 200
   * - valve
     - :code:`zeta.max_val`
     - 1e15

- On some machines the coloring of the results printout does not work and
  displaces the table in an ugly way. To avoid this, the coloring is changed to
  optional (`PR #229 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/229>`_). Use the
  following line for non-colored printouts:

  .. code-block:: python

      mynetwork.print_results(colored=False)

- An error message is raised in case the user specifies a fluid vector
  containing fluids, that are not part of the network's fluid list
  (`PR #233 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/233>`_).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`_)
- `@jbueck <https://github.com/jbueck>`_
- Markus Brandt (`@MarBrandt <https://github.com/MarBrandt>`_)
