docs/whats_new/v0-4-3.rst, before:

v0.4.3 - Someversion (Somemonth, Someday, Someyear)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Automatic provision of input data for the sankey diagram class of the
  `plotly library <https://plotly.com/python/sankey-diagram/>`_ to generate
  Grassmann diagrams. For example, the Grassmann diagram of the example
  presented in the API documentation of class
  :py:class:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis`:

  .. figure:: api/_images/Grassmann.svg
      :align: center

  (`PR #251 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/251>`_).

Documentation
#############
- An own chapter for the 
  :ref:`exergy analysis toolbox <tespy_analyses_exergy_label>` has been added
  (`PR #251 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/251>`_).

Bug Fixes
#########
- Add missing exergy balance method of class Drum
  (`#1eb92e3 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/1eb92e3>`_).
- Add missing specified values of temperature difference to boiling point to
  connection report
  (`PR #250 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/250>`_).

Other Changes
#############

- Add a timestamp for the automatic model documentation feature
  (`PR #248 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/248>`_).

- Move from travis to GitHub actions
  (`PR #249 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/249>`_).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`_)
- `@jfreissmann <https://github.com/jfreissmann>`_

Commit message:

Update documentation for new results data structure usage

docs/whats_new/v0-4-3.rst, after:

v0.4.3 - Someversion (Somemonth, Someday, Someyear)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Automatic provision of input data for the sankey diagram class of the
  `plotly library <https://plotly.com/python/sankey-diagram/>`_ to generate
  Grassmann diagrams. For example, the Grassmann diagram of the example
  presented in the API documentation of class
  :py:class:`tespy.tools.analyses.ExergyAnalysis`:

  .. figure:: api/_images/Grassmann.svg
      :align: center

  (`PR #251 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/251>`_).
- The results of your simulation are much more easy to bulk access: The
  :py:class:`tespy.networks.network.Network` class provides you with a
  results dictionary containing DataFrames with all data necessary. The keys
  of the dictionary are:

  - :code:`'Connection'`
  - the class names of the different components used, e.g. :code:`'Turbine'` or
    :code:`'HeatExchanger'`
  - the labels of the busses, e.g. :code:`'input power'`

  The pandas DataFrame provides you with the SI-values for components and
  busses as well as all fluid property data of the connections in respective
  specified unit. For example:

  .. code-block:: python

      mynetwork.results['Connection']
      mynetwork.results['Turbine']

  (`PR #255 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/255>`_).

Documentation
#############
- An own chapter for the
  :ref:`exergy analysis toolbox <tespy_analyses_exergy_label>` has been added
  (`PR #251 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/251>`_).

Bug Fixes
#########
- Add missing exergy balance method of class Drum
  (`#1eb92e3 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/1eb92e3>`_).
- Add missing specified values of temperature difference to boiling point to
  connection report
  (`PR #250 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/250>`_).

Other Changes
#############

- Add a timestamp for the automatic model documentation feature
  (`PR #248 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/248>`_).
- Move from travis to GitHub actions
  (`PR #249 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/249>`_).
- Specified Bus values are now colored in the
  :py:meth:`tespy.networks.network.Network.print_results` method
  (`PR #255 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/255>`_).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`_)
- `@jfreissmann <https://github.com/jfreissmann>`_
