v0.6.0 - Colored Chemicals (May, 15, 2022)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

We have created a place for users of TESPy to exchange ideas and share their
models and experience. Everyone is invited to get in touch and tune in on our
`GitHub discussions page <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/discussions>`__.

New Features
############
- A new component is introduced, the DiabaticCombustionChamber:
  :py:class:`tespy.components.combustion.diabatic.DiabaticCombustionChamber`.
  In contrast to the adiabatic combustion chamber, the new component implements
  pressure and heat losses. An example usage can be found in the API reference
  of the class linked above
  (`PR #301 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/301>`_).
- Gaseous mixtures now check for condensation of water in enthalpy and entropy
  functions (`PR #318 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/318>`_).

Documentation
#############
- Add tutorial for the :code:`DiabaticCombustionChamber`
  (`PR #321 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/321>`_).
- Fix a lot of bugs in the docs
  (`PR #337 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/337>`_).

Bug Fixes
#########
- Calculation of entropy for gaseous mixtures included the pressure correction
  term although the entropy values of the mixture components were calculated at
  their respective partial pressure
  (`PR #318 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/318>`_).
- Fix mass flow multipliers for non SI units
  (`PR #317 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/317>`_).
- Fix call to wrong (hard coded) key for molecular mass of hydrogen
  (`PR #332 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/332>`_).
- Fix some typos in the documentation of the class
  :py:class:`tespy.components.reactors.water_electrolyzer.WaterElectrolyzer`
  (`PR #335 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/335>`_).
- Fix an error in the aggregated results of components and busses in the exergy
  analysis in case the temperature at turbomachinery is less than or equal to
  ambient temperature (`PR #340 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/340>`_).

Other Changes
#############
- The component :code:`CombustionChamberStoich` has been removed
  (`PR #321 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/321>`_).
- The fluid property back-end :code:`TESPyFluid` has been removed
  (`PR #321 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/321>`_).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`_)
- `@tub-hofmann <https://github.com/tub-hofmann>`_
- `@nkawerau <https://github.com/nkawerau>`_
- `@BenPortner <https://github.com/BenPortner>`_
