v0.6.3 - Leidenfrost's Library (July, 30, 2023)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- A new TESPy logger has been implemented to capture TESPy specific loggings
  with a constant string id for the logger object that is retrieved from the
  logging module. This allows to modify the logging functionality in a
  programmatic way and simplifies the work that has to be done in libraries and
  applications that consume the TESPy library
  (`PR #390 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/390>`__).
- A progress bar for the iterations has been integrated
  (`PR #391 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/391>`__).
- The chemical exergy analysis features is now available for combustion chamber
  and diabatic combustion chamber. The feature also ships the `Ahrendts`
  :cite:`Ahrendts1980,Ahrendts1977,Ahrendts1974`, `Szargut1988`
  :cite:`Szargut1988` and `Szargut2007` :cite:`Szargut2007,Bakshi2011` chemical
  exergy data for the environment model. In your Grassmann exergy flow diagrams
  you can now also decide, whether to disaggregate the flows of exergy into
  their chemical and physical (and massless, e.g. mechanical or electrical
  power) parts (`PR #322 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/322>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- The pressure ratio of the
  :py:class:`tespy.components.combustion.diabatic.DiabaticCombustionChamber`
  was never calculated in postprocessing if not specified from user
  (`PR #380 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/380>`_).
- Heat exchangers will now provide a result for the logarithmic temperature
  difference and the heat transfer coefficient in case the values of the upper
  and lower temperature difference are equal. Some issues in such situations
  remain when in offdesign mode
  (`PR #396 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/396>`__).
- Fix unit display for fluid property ranges in log files
  (`PR #420 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/420>`__).
- The fluid propagation often got caught in infinite recursion when splitters
  and merges are part the network. This PR fixes that bug for many instances
  (`PR #427 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/427>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- Rename `comp_init` method of components to `preprocess`
  (`PR #404 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/404>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
- `@jowr <https://github.com/jowr>`__
- `@dk-teknologisk-enp <https://github.com/dk-teknologisk-enp>`__
- `@aburabazam <https://github.com/aburabazam>`__
- `@tboussaid <https://github.com/tboussaid>`__

Special thanks to `@KarimHShawky <https://github.com/KarimHShawky>`__ and
`@tub-hofmann <https://github.com/tub-hofmann>`__ for the compilation and
provision of the standard chemical exergy data.
