v0.6.1 - Upcoming features
++++++++++++++++++++++++++
We have completely revised the documentation improving the overall structure
and introducing a modern look
(`PR #355 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/355>`_). Have fun exploring the
website!

New Features
############
- Add support for higher Python versions and remove upper limit
  (`PR #350 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/350>`_).
- A new component FuelCell is available:
  :py:class:`tespy.components.reactors.fuel_cell.FuelCell`. It is analogously
  defined to the WaterElectrolyzer
  :py:class:`tespy.components.reactors.water_electrolyzer.WaterElectrolyzer`
  (`PR #329 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/329>`_).
- Integration of an optimization suite using pygmo :cite:`Biscani2020` to apply
  a variety of state of the art optimization algorithms to your TESPy model
  (`PR #296 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/296>`__). It has been further
  improved in `PR #357 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/357>`__.
- Volumetric flow can be referenced using the
  :py:class:`tespy.connections.connection.Ref` class
  (`Discussion #352 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/discussions/352>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- The Network's component DataFrame is now available as soon as a connection
  is added to the network. It is possible to use the
  :py:meth:`tespy.networks.network.Network.get_comp` method prior to
  initializing or solving
  (`PR #362 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/362>`_).

Documentation
#############
- Fix some typos in the online documentation
  (`PR #342 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/342>`_).
- New tutorial on starting values for a subcritical heat pump setup
  (`PR #346 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/346>`_).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`_)
- `@NicholasFry <https://github.com/NicholasFry>`_
- Matthias Bock (`@matbock <https://github.com/matbock>`_)
- `@maltefritz <https://github.com/maltefritz>`_
