v0.7.9 - Newton's Nature (March, 02, 2025)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Implement a new property for connections to report the phase of the fluid,
  i.e. :code:`"l"` for liquid, :code:`"tp"` for two-phase and :code:`"g"` for
  gaseous. The phase is only reported in subcritical pressure
  (`PR #592 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/592>`__).
- Implement the Baumann correlation for wet expansion in steamturbines. The
  feature is available in a new component class,
  :py:class:`tespy.components.turbomachinery.steam_turbine.SteamTurbine`. To
  use the feature check the documentation of the component class
  (`PR #602 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/602>`__).
- Implement a new component class
  :py:class:`tespy.components.heat_exchangers.movingboundary.MovingBoundaryHeatExchanger`,
  which allows to make specification of internal pinch temperature difference
  in case of heat exchanger internal phase changes on the hot or the cold side
  of the component. It splits the heat exchange automatically in sections,
  where in each section the phase of the hot and the cold fluid does not change.
  These sections are utilized to find the minimum pinch internally, and allow
  to assing heat transfer coefficients `UA` for all individual sections as well
  as the total sum
  (`PR #515 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/515>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- Run the postprocessing only for a converged solution. Otherwise specified
  values on buses, components or connections may change to nonsense, because
  the calculation is based on not-converged results of the variables
  (`PR #609 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/609>`__).
- Fix the fuel cell example and make sure it is tested properly
  (`PR #618 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/618>`__).

Contributors
############
- `@tlmerbecks <https://github.com/tlmerbecks>`__
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
