v0.7.0 - Newtons's Nature (October, 11, 2023)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

For version 0.7.0 TESPy has undergone a large refactoring of its back end:

New Features
############

Fluid Properties
----------------

The implementation of the fluid property back end was modularized and is now
much more flexible. The most notable new features are:

- It is possible to use the same fluid name with different fluid property back
  ends in different parts of a single network, e.g. in a Rankine Cycle the main
  cycle can be calculated using standard water fluid properties and in the
  cooling cycle water may be used as incompressible medium.
- CoolProp's binary incompressible mixtures are now supported.
- The user can implement their own fluid property equations or toolboxes by
  masquerading the calls in a standard API inheriting from the new
  `FluidPropertyWrapper` class. CoolProp remains the standard back end, but you
  may also use other back ends with this feature.
- Similarly, the mixture model can be exchanged by implementing custom mixing
  rules for fluid mixtures.
- It is not necessary anymore, to specify the full fluid vector if the sum of
  all fixed fluid mass fractions is equal to 1, e.g. if the old specification
  was :code:`fluid={"H2O": 1, "Air": 0}` you can now specify
  :code:`fluid={"H2O": 1}`. The list of fluids is passed to the `Network` class
  anymore, :code:`Network(fluids["H2O", "Air"])` becomes :code:`Network()`.

Performance Improvements
------------------------

Several performance improvements have been made:

- Primary variables are not strictly tied to all connections anymore:

  - Any directly specified value removes the respective variable from the
    system's variables. For example, a user specified pressure value was part of
    the system's variables previously but not touched in the Newton iterations.
    Now the variable is directly eliminated effectively reducing the size of the
    problem. The same is true for all variables, i.e. mass flow, pressure,
    enthalpy and fluid mass fractions.
  - If combinations of pressure and temperature, vapor quality or similar are
    specified on a single connection, the pressure and enthalpy are pre-solved
    if feasible eliminating them from the variable space and eliminating the
    respective (e.g. temperature) equation from the equations.
  - The plant is subdivided into two types of branches:

    1. Branches with a single mass flow (connections related to each other in a
       way, that their mass flow must be the same). Here the variable space is
       reduced to a single mass flow variable.
    2. Branches with identical fluid composition (similar to mass flows, but
       e.g. splitters, drums, droplet separators do not change the fluid
       composition as well) can also only have a single fluid vector as a
       variable and not one per connection.

- Together with the above changes all partial derivatives now only need to be
  calculated, in case a mass flow, pressure, enthalpy or the fluid mass fraction
  is a system variable.

General Improvements
--------------------

The code has been simplified and clean up in a lot of places to improve
readability and maintenance.


Breaking Changes
################

The release introduces two (known) breaking changes:

- The structure for saved network states has changed to the minimum necessary
  export. Connections only need their label, their parameter values and the
  respective units. For that reason, the export of networks to import them at a
  different place using the `load_network` functionality has changed as well. If
  you want to export a network to load it again, you have to use the `export`
  method instead of the `save` method of the network.
- Support for older Python versions (smaller than 3.9) has been dropped.

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
