v0.8.1 - Newton's Nature (May, 29, 2025)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- A new component :code:`Pipeline` has been added, which can calculate heat
  losses based on its material, insulation as well as the surrounding
  conditions, e.g. if it is an above surface pipeline or a subsurface buried
  pipeline (`PR #661 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/661>`__).
- The :code:`CoolPropWrapper` API can now handle CoolProp based mixtures
  and allows the user to specify which type of mixture fractions to use
  (mass, molar, volume). This is mostly for REFPROP support and will require
  further adaptions for the :code:`CoolPropWrapper` in the future, because the
  pure fluid functions may not be applicable in the context of mixtures
  (`PR #655 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/655>`__).

  In case you are working with incompressible mixtures, this feature is API
  breaking. You need to append :code:`|mass`, :code:`|volume` or
  :code:`|molar` to your fluid name string at the very end to specify, which
  type of mixture is used. This information can be retrieved from the
  CoolProp online documentation on the incompressible fluids.

Bug Fixes
#########
- In case parts of a :code:`Network` were missing a :code:`CycleCloser` or
  a :code:`Source` and :code:`Sink` combination a misleading error was raised.
  These cases are checked for explicitly now to make debugging easier
  (`PR #653 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/653>`__).
- The logging of warnings for :code:`HeatExchanger` based components includes
  the label of the component, when cold or hot side effectiveness cannot be
  calculated (`PR #670 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/670>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
- `@HaSchneider <https://github.com/HaSchneider>`__
