v0.8.2 - Newton's Nature (June, 12, 2025)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

API changes
###########
- The API of the :code:`Subsystem` class has been revised to make it act more
  like a :code:`Network`. You can get components and connections from the
  subsystem with respective methods, and the :code:`SubsystemInterface` class
  is utilized to target the :code:`subsystem.inlet` and
  :code:`subsystem.outlet` in a :code:`Connection` object. For the required
  changes please check the respective section
  :ref:`in the docs <tespy_subsystems_label>`
  (`PR #652 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/652>`__).
- The attribute :code:`progress` of the class :code:`Network` has been removed.
  (`PR #684 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/684>`__).
- To raise an :code:`AssertionError` on non-convergence of a simulation you
  must now use :code:`Network.assert_convergence()` instead of
  :code:`Network._convergence_check()`
  (`PR #684 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/684>`__).

New Features
############
- The combustion based component classes :code:`CombustionChamber`,
  :code:`DiabaticCombustionChamber` and :code:`CombustionEngine` can now handle
  carbonmonoxide as fuel
  (`PR #674 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/674>`__).
- The :code:`Network`'s :code:`solve` method will now assign status values
  depending of the outcome of the simulation. Check the section on
  :ref:`convergence <tespy_module_convergence_label>` for more information
  (`PR #684 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/684>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- The partial derivatives for specified temperature are only calculated towards
  enthalpy and pressure, not towards the fluid compostion. The reason for this
  is, that it is not intended, that the composition of a fluid can be
  determined by specifying temperature. Removing this saves a lot of
  computational overhead for mixtures
  (`PR #674 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/674>`__).
- The calculation of the logarithmic temperature difference in heat exchanger
  classes was error-prone due to rounding differences in temperature. The
  calculation is now consistent through all respective classes and can handle
  temperature differences to a precision of :code:`1e-6`
  (`PR #679 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/679>`__).
- The export method :code:`to_exerpy` now includes the results for components
  (`PR #680 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/680>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
