v0.8.0 - Under development
++++++++++++++++++++++++++

API breaking changes
####################
- The :code:`OptimizationProblem` implements the following changes
  (see `PR #610 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/610>`__):
  - The dtype for :code:`objective` has been changed to list. With a single
    element list, a single objective optimization is carried out. With lists
    containing more elements, multi-objective optimization will be carried out.
  - The function argument :code:`gen` of the :code:`run` method has been
    renamed to :code:`evo`. The same applies for the :code:`individuals`
    dataframe.
  - Your tespy model now needs to have a function :code:`get_objectives`
    instead of :code:`get_objective` and it must return a list of values.
  - The intermediate printing during optimization has been removed.

- Exporting or saving a network state to the filesystem will create a single
  :code:`json` file in the future, meaning you need to change the path to
  :code:`"export.json"`, for example. Also, you need to replace the
  :code:`design_path` and :code:`init_path` arguments for your networks to
  point to the respective json file. To transform an existing export or save
  state from the old API of v0.7, you can use the :code:`v07_to_v08_export` and
  the :code:`v07_to_v08_save` methods. They will return a dictionary with the
  respective data, which you can dump into a :code:`.json` file.

  This also breaks the API of the
  :py:meth:`tespy.networks.network_reader.load_network` method, meaning
  exported network data based on :code:`tespy<0.8` are not compatible with how
  :code:`tespy>=0.8` is handling the data. Use the described method above to
  adjust that. On top of that, instead of the :code:`load_network` method, use
  the :code:`from_json` class method to import networks in the future:

  **Saving a state of the network and using it to initialize**

  .. code-block:: python

    >>> from tespy.networks import Network
    >>> from tespy.connections import Connection
    >>> from tespy.components import Source, Sink
    >>> nwk = Network(iterinfo=False)
    >>> so = Source("source")
    >>> si = Sink("sink")
    >>> c1 = Connection(so, "out1", si, "in1", label="1")
    >>> nwk.add_conns(c1)
    >>> c1.set_attr(m=1, p=10, T=100, fluid={"air": 1})
    >>> nwk.solve("design")
    >>> data = nwk.save("design.json")
    >>> nwk.solve("design", init_path="design.json")

  **Saving the state of the network to csv files**

  You can also export your state to a folder + csv files tree.

    >>> nwk.save_csv("csv_state_export_folder")

  **Exporting and Importing a Network**

  The export of the network is written to the specified path, and will return
  the data as a dictionary as well. If you only want to retain the data without
  writing them to the filesystem, you can call the method without passing a
  path.

  .. code-block:: python

    >>> data = nwk.export("tmp.json")
    >>> list(data.keys())
    ['Network', 'Connection', 'Component', 'Bus']
    >>> list(data["Component"])
    ['Sink', 'Source']
    >>> imported_nw = Network.from_json("tmp.json")
    >>> data_without_json_writing = nwk.export()
    >>> list(data_without_json_writing["Connection"])
    ['1']

  Diff: (`PR #605 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/605>`__ and
  `PR #638 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/638>`).

New Features
############
- The parameter for delta pressure (:code:`dp`) is now available on all
  components, that do feature the pressure ratio :code:`pr` parameter
  (`PR #628 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/628>`__).

  .. attention::

    Please note, that the :code:`dp` parameter follows the network unit
    specification for pressure. If your network unit is :code:`bar`, then the
    pressure drop will also use bar as unit.

- Modify the :code:`OptimizationProblem` class to allow multi-objective
  optimization (`PR #610 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/610>`__).

- Component bypassing is now possible by specifying :code:`bypass` on a
  component. This applies pressure and enthalpy equality to the inlet and
  corresponding outlet connection pairs of components. This only works for
  single inlet-single outlet components as well as heat exchanger components
  with two sides (`PR #615 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/615>`__).

  .. code-block:: python

    >>> from tespy.networks import Network
    >>> from tespy.connections import Connection
    >>> from tespy.components import Source, Sink, SimpleHeatExchanger

    >>> nw = Network(p_unit="bar", T_unit="C", h_unit="kJ / kg", iterinfo=False)

    >>> source = Source("In")
    >>> sink = Sink("Out")
    >>> heater = SimpleHeatExchanger("Heater")

    >>> c1 = Connection(source, "out1", heater, "in1", "1")
    >>> c2 = Connection(heater, "out1", sink, "in1", "2")

    >>> nw.add_conns(c1, c2)

    >>> c1.set_attr(T=100, p=2, m=1, fluid={"water":1})
    >>> heater.set_attr(Q=2e6, pr=0.9)

    >>> nw.solve("design")

    >>> heater.set_attr(bypass=True)
    >>> nw.solve("design")

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
- `@tlmerbecks <https://github.com/tlmerbecks>`__
