v0.9.4 - under development
++++++++++++++++++++++++++

API Changes
###########
- The specification of units via the :code:`Network` class instance is
  deprecated and will be removed with the next major release. Use the new
  :code:`Units` class from the `tespy.units` module instead. It also includes
  units for all component properties:

  .. code-block::

      >>> from tespy.networks import Network
      >>> from tespy.components import (
      ...     Source, Sink, Turbine, SimpleHeatExchanger, PowerSink, Generator
      ... )
      >>> from tespy.connections import Connection, PowerConnection
      >>> nw = Network(iterinfo=False)
      >>> nw.units.set_default_units(**{
      ...     "pressure": "bar",
      ...     "temperature": "degC",
      ...     "temperature_difference": "delta_degC",
      ...     "power": "MW",
      ...     "heat": "hp",
      ...     "efficiency": "%"
      ... })
      >>> source = Source("source")
      >>> heater = SimpleHeatExchanger("heater")
      >>> turbine = Turbine("turbine")
      >>> sink = Sink("sink")
      >>> generator = Generator("generator")
      >>> grid = PowerSink("grid")
      >>> c1 = Connection(source, "out1", heater, "in1", label="c1")
      >>> c2 = Connection(heater, "out1", turbine, "in1", label="c2")
      >>> c3 = Connection(turbine, "out1", sink, "in1", label="c3")
      >>> e1 = PowerConnection(turbine, "power", generator, "power_in", label="e1")
      >>> e2 = PowerConnection(generator, "power_out", grid, "power", label="e2")
      >>> nw.add_conns(c1, c2, c3, e1, e2)

  Parameter specifications come with the specified units.

  .. code-block::

      >>> c1.set_attr(fluid={"water": 1}, T=25, p=100)  # degC and bar
      >>> c2.set_attr(T=600)  # degC
      >>> c3.set_attr(p=5)  # bar
      >>> e2.set_attr(E=10)  # MW
      >>> heater.set_attr(dp=5)  # pressure drop -> bar
      >>> generator.set_attr(eta=97)  # efficiency
      >>> turbine.set_attr(eta_s=85)  # efficiency
      >>> nw.solve("design")

  It is even possible to specify a custom unit for a single parameter:

  .. code-block::

      >>> Q = nw.units.ureg.Quantity
      >>> heater.set_attr(dp=Q(20, "psi"))  # set pressure drop with in psi
      >>> nw.solve("design")
      >>> round(c2.p.val_with_unit, 4)  # retrieve pint.Quantity
      <Quantity(98.621, 'bar')>
      >>> round(turbine.P.val, 2)  # val still only retrieves number, but in specified default unit
      -10.31
      >>> round(heater.dp.val, 1)  # individually assign units are retained
      20.0

  If you want to make use of the unit conversion capabilities yourself for
  custom components and their attributes, then you have to provide the
  :code:`quantity` information to the respective parameter. For more
  information on this, please check the
  :ref:`respective section <tespy_components_custom_components_label>` in the
  docs.

- In the back-end of the :code:`tespy.components` you have to adjust the
  access to internal component property values. Previously, these were accessed
  through the :code:`val` property of the respective object, e.g.

  - turbine efficiency: :code:`turbine.eta_s.val`

  .. code-block:: python

      return (
          -(outl.h.val_SI - inl.h.val_SI)
          + (
              isentropic(
                  inl.p.val_SI,
                  inl.h.val_SI,
                  outl.p.val_SI,
                  inl.fluid_data,
                  inl.mixing_rule,
                  T0=inl.T.val_SI
              )
              - inl.h.val_SI
          ) * self.eta_s.val_SI
      )

  With the introduction of units for all component parameters, these should now
  exclusively be accessed with the :code:`val_SI` property, which also aligns
  the API with the :code:`Connection` class API, e.g.:

  - turbine efficiency: :code:`turbine.eta_s.val_SI`

  .. code-block:: python

      return (
          -(outl.h.val_SI - inl.h.val_SI)
          + (
              isentropic(
                  inl.p.val_SI,
                  inl.h.val_SI,
                  outl.p.val_SI,
                  inl.fluid_data,
                  inl.mixing_rule,
                  T0=inl.T.val_SI
              )
              - inl.h.val_SI
          ) * self.eta_s.val
      )


  The old way of access may still work if you are exclusively using SI units in
  your models, but may have unexpected side-effects.

New Features
############
- A new component :code:`Node` is available. The component combines the
  :code:`Splitter` and :code:`Merge` component in a single one, meaning you can
  connect multiple inlets and multiple outlets at the same time. The pressure
  is forced equal for all connections, the enthalpy and fluid composition will
  be equal for all of the outlets and based on the incoming fluids' states
  (`PR #733 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/733>`__).
- TESPy now integrates `pint <https://pint.readthedocs.io/>`__ for unit
  conversions. With this change, you can now also specify units for the missing
  connection parameters

  - quality: :code:`x`,
  - temperature differences: :code:`Td_bp` and
  - power/heat :code:`E` for :code:`PowerConnections`

  as well as all component parameters. For an example on how to work with the
  new units, please check :ref:`this section <TODOADDSECTIONLABEL>`
  (`PR #743 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/743>`__).
- A new component :code:`PolynomialCompressor` is available. The component
  uses `EN 12900` type polynomial coefficients to calculate isentropic and
  volumetric efficiencies, and can take dissipative heat loss into
  consideration. Displacement in offdesign conditions can be calculated based
  on variable rpm of the compressor. For an extensive example please check the
  docstrings of this component
  (`PR #741 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/741>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- A few broken internal links have been fixed in the documentation
  (`PR #735 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/735>`).
- An error is raised, when a Subsystem calls its :code:`add_conns` method and
  the label of the to be added connection is already existing inside the
  Subsystem (`PR #745 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/745>`).
- For pure fluids in two-phase at the state of :code:`p=p` and :code:`T=T0`
  the splitting of exergy was broken, because the enthalpy :code:`h(p=p, T=T0)`
  cannot be calculated. Instead :code:`ex_therm` is assigned :code:`0.0` in
  this case (`PR #738 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/738>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
