v0.9.3 - Kelvin's Kingdom (July, 30, 2025)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Hotfix for Postrelease
######################
- :code:`UserDefinedEquations` now automatically reassign their connection and
  component objections. This is necessary in context of pygmo base
  optimization (`PR #726 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/726>`__).
- When either :code:`ttd_u` or :code:`ttd_l` on a class :code:`HeatExchanger`
  component is zero, :code:`kA` will be set to nan to pervent a crash
  (`PR #728 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/728>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- :code:`Td_bp` and :code:`x` are now set to :code:`nan`, if the state of the
  fluid is supercritical. The :code:`_make_p_subcritical` method has been
  removed from the :code:`FluidPropertyWrapper` classes, because the
  convergence helpers will ensure, that no two-phase properties are accessed in
  supercritical states. Otherwise it was possible, that a simulation converged
  with a supercritical state and :code:`x` or :code:`Td_bp` set by the user
  (`PR #722 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/722>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- When adding connections to a subsystem in the :code:`create_network` method
  components were sometimes added multiple times
  (`PR #718 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/718>`__).
- The error message when imposing boundary conditions leading to a cyclic
  linear dependency was wrong for some instances
  (`PR #720 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/720>`__).
- The starting value guesses for enthalpy of :code:`Turbine` class instances
  now differentiates between supercritical and non-supercritical pressure
  (`PR #721 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/721>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
