v0.9.15 - Under development
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- A draft for a high-level :code:`tespy.model` class is available:
  :code:`ModelTemplate`. The class provides some interfacing and orchestration
  methods to make sensitivity analysis, cycle plotting and optimization easier.
  For examples on how to use it please check the
  :ref:`Integration <integration_model_class_template_label>` and
  :ref:`Optimization <tutorial_optimization_label>` tutorials
  (`PR #944 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/944>`__).
- The API for :code:`OptimizationProblem` changed from nested type dictionary
  specification to flat type dictionary specification and is fully compatible
  to the new :code:`ModelTemplate` class.
  **We strongly recommend to use it together with :code:`ModelTemplate`**
  **in the future.** The :ref:`optimization <tutorial_optimization_label>`
  tutorial has been revised accordingly
  (`PR #944 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/944>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- The :code:`set_attr` methods of :code:`Component` and :code:`Connection` type
  classes have  been refactored for improved readability and maintainability.
  The responsibility for the value checks now lies in separate methods, which
  are handled by the respective data containers
  (`PR #936 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/936>`__).
- The :code:`set_attr` method of :code:`Network` class has been deprecated, now
  all the attributes need to be directly assigned in the future
  (`PR #939 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/939>`__).
- TESPy now exports :code:`'vol'` as key for specific volume in context of data
  transfer to fluprodia for cycle plots. fluprodia version 4.1 will align with
  the TESPy unit and naming schemes
  (`PR #941 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/941>`__).
- There now is a quantity for :code:`pressure_difference` separate from the
  :code:`pressure` quantity. You will need to specify them individually in the
  future (`PR #942 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/942>`__).
- :code:`T_dew` and :code:`T_bubble` are now also available as outputs
  parameters of the connection post-processing
  (`PR #944 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/944>`__).
- It is possible to set or unset a :code:`UserDefinedEquation` without needing
  to remove and add it again to a :code:`Network`, check the example in the
  respective  :ref:`section of the docs <ude_label>`
  (`PR #944 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/944>`__).
- :code:`HeatExchanger` class type components now also have the
  :code:`calc_sections` method to make QT diagrams in the same structure as
  available in :code:`SectionedHeatExchanger`
  (`PR #944 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/944>`__).
- Improve performance for passing data to the :code:`Network.results`
  dataframes (`PR #944 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/944>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- Fixed a bug, which prevented reading the correct information for the
  connections adjacent to a component in :code:`local_offdesign=True` mode in
  a design simulation or with an individual :code:`design_path` in an offdesign
  simulation (`PR #943 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/943>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
- `@HaSchneider <https://github.com/HaSchneider>`__
- `@jfreissmann <https://github.com/jfreissmann>`__
- `@maltefritz <https://github.com/maltefritz>`__
- `@pranaykasturi <https://github.com/pranaykasturi>`__
- Konstantinos Papanikandros
