v0.9.8 - Kelvin's Kingdom (October, 17, 2025)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- It is now possible the specify pressure indirectly by specifying the dew line
  or bubble line temperature of the fluid :code:`T_dew` or :code:`T_bubble`.
  Specifying any of these will precalculate the pressure in the preprocessing
  and set it as fixed value on the respective connection
  (`PR #793 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/793>`__).
- A new component :code:`SectionedHeatExchanger` is available. This component
  works similar to the :code:`MovingBoundaryHeatExchanger` but discretizes with
  a specific number of steps (user specified) over the enthalpy and linearly
  over the pressure drop. This allows you to integrate pressure drop in the UA
  and internal pinch calculation. For an example look up the component in the
  API documentation
  (`PR #794 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/794>`__).
- A new component :code:`PolynomialCompressorWithCooling` is available. This
  component is an extension on the :code:`PolynomialCompressor` adding a inflow
  and an outflow for a cooling fluid. The :code:`eta_recovery` identifies
  the share of heat transferred from the dissipated heat (based on
  the :code:`dissipation_ratio`) of the refrigerant. Along with this a
  restructuring has taken place, and the :code:`PolynomialCompressor` classes
  now are located in the :code:`tespy.components.displacementmachinery` module.

  .. attention::

    With the components moving you now need to import the compressor specific
    setup methods for the polynomials calculations from the new module, e.g.:

    >>> from tespy.components.displacementmachinery.polynomial_compressor import generate_eta_polys_from_data

  (`PR #804 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/804>`__).

Other changes
#############
- :code:`Q_diss_rel` of the :code:`PolynomialCompressor` class has been
  renamed to :code:`dissipation_ratio`
  (`PR #802 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/802>`__).
- A nice new tutorial on the different types of heat exchangers is available
  (`PR #798 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/798>`__).
- Parameter groups (e.g. :code:`darcy_group` or :code:`UA_cecchinato`) can now
  be specified to not be used in design or offdesign even when all elements of
  the group are set with :code:`offdesign=["UA_cecchinato"]`
  (`PR #812 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/812>`__).
- It is now possible to desirialize a :code:`Network` from a dictionary. For
  this you have to do the following:

  .. code-block:: python

      >>> from tespy.networks import Network
      >>> from tespy.components import Source, Sink
      >>> from tespy.connections import Connection
      >>> nw = Network()
      >>> c = Connection(Source("source"), "out1", Sink("sink"), "in1", label="c")
      >>> nw.add_conns(c)
      >>> serialization = nw.export()  # you can save the serialization in a variable
      >>> new_nw = Network.from_dict(serialization)

  (`PR #816 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/816>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- :code:`td_bubble` and :code:`td_dew` are now calculated in postprocessing if
  they are not specified
  (`PR #792 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/792>`__).
- The component classes missing the :code:`@component_registry` decorator have
  been updated (`PR #815 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/815>`__).
- :code:`h_ps` and :code:`h_pQ` have been added to the
  :code:`FluidPropertyWrapper` class
  (`PR #818 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/818>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
- `@25Nik <https://github.com/25Nik>`__
- `@maltefritz <https://github.com/maltefritz>`__
