v0.9.14 - Under Development
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Bug Fixes
#########
- When setting a `Ref` for a temperature, the starting value for enthalpy of
  the connection with the `Ref` specified is updated in preprocessing
  (`PR #921 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/921>`__).
- When loading a :code:`Network` from its serialized form the :code:`is_var`
  information of component properties being a variable was missing
  (`PR #932 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/932>`__).
- For component characteristic maps the default if no map is found in the
  :code:`tespy.data` module was a :code:`CharLine` by accident. This was a
  silent error because if not used, it did not do any trouble. Only when
  importing a :code:`Network` and reconstructing the component parameters the
  :code:`CharMap` could not be constructed successfully because it was missing
  dimensions (`PR #933 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/933>`__).
- The reactor classes :code:`FuelCell` and :code:`WaterElectrolyzer` were
  missing the implementation for a :code:`PowerConnection`
  (`PR #934 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/934>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- A :code:`CITATION.cff` file is available to reference the GitHub repository
  (`PR #917 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/917>`__).
- You can now specify the flow speed at the inlet of pipes
  (`PR #924 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/924>`__).
- It is now possible to specify the efficiency of class :code:`Pump` based on
  flow work (:math:`v\cdot \int dp`) next to isentropic efficiency
  (`PR #927 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/927>`__).
- The :code:`SectionedHeatExchanger` and :code:`MovingBoundaryHeatExchanger`
  now can utilize the :code:`UA_char` as offdesign parameter. It utilizes the
  characteristic :code:`kA_char` lines of the standard heat exchangers to
  evaluate the change of :code:`UA` to :code:`UA_design` as function of mass
  flow. It is similar to the :code:`UA_cecchinato` method, but does not need
  the specification of Reynolds exponents, area or alpha ratios
  (`PR #928 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/928>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
- `@lennipapa <https://github.com/lennipapa>`__
