v0.9.16 - Kelvin's Kingdom (April, 27, 2026)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New features
############
- There is a new type of connection, :code:`HAConnection`, which utilizes the
  `HAPropsSI` functionalities of `CoolProp <https://coolprop.org>`__. The
  feature is still in experimental stage, go and check it out in the example
  :ref:`on this page <tutorial_humidair_label>`
  (`PR #940 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/940>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- Improve convergence behavior of :code:`UA` and :code:`kA` related equations
  of :code:`HeatExchanger` classes
  (`PR #953 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/953>`__).
- Implement a method to catch all-zero entries in rows of the Jacobian to
  continue iterations (`PR #955 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/955>`__).
- Remove under-stoichiometric combustion due to numerical issues with hydrogen
  (`PR #957 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/957>`__).
  UPDATE: The fix has been reverted and a better solutions was implemented:
  (`94063d3 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/94063d3e2a6e6b8ce58bed38324275efe92a211c>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- UPDATE post3: The temperature starting value guess for referenced temperature
  specifications was originally updated before updating all guess values for
  all connections. This could lead to doing a guess for one conneciton, while
  the referenced connection did not have that update yet
  (`3d99318 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/3d9931834de6f9adcf8f24f9f42e083f5f87cf61>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
- `@jowr <https://github.com/jowr>`__
- `@JacobCHP <https://github.com/JacobCHP>`__
