v0.9.5 - Kelvin's Kingdom (September, 6, 2025)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Temperature differences to bubble and dew temperature are now explicitly set
  with the :code:`td_bubble` and :code:`td_dew` parameters, which will replace
  the specification of :code:`Td_bp` in the next major release. The API for
  these specifications is as follows:

  - :code:`td_bubble` references the temperature at bubble line
    (:code:`T(p,Q=0)`)
  - :code:`td_dew` references the temperature at dew line
    (:code:`T(p,Q=1)`)
  - For pure fluids, this will be the same temperature, for mixtures (e.g. as
    accessible through REFPROP it will not)!
  - For :code:`td_bubble`:
    - A **positive** value indicates a temperature **below** bubble temperature
      by the specified value.
    - A **negative** value indicates a temperature **above** bubble temperature
      by the specified value.
  - For :code:`td_dew`:
    - A **positive** value indicates a temperature **above** dew temperature
      by the specified value.
    - A **negative** value indicates a temperature **below** dew temperature
      by the specified value.
  - You can also specify :code:`td_bubble=0` or :code:`td_dew=0`, which will
    enforce saturated liquid or saturated gas state.

  .. code-block:: python

      >>> from tespy.connections import Connection
      >>> from tespy.networks import Network
      >>> from tespy.components import Source, Sink
      >>> nw = Network(iterinfo=False)
      >>> nw.units.set_defaults(temperature="degC", pressure="bar")
      >>> so = Source("source")
      >>> si = Sink("sink")
      >>> c = Connection(so, "out1", si, "in1")
      >>> nw.add_conns(c)
      >>> c.set_attr(fluid={"R290": 1}, m=1, p=10, td_bubble=5)
      >>> nw.solve("design")
      >>> round(c.T.val, 2)
      21.94
      >>> c.set_attr(td_bubble=None, td_dew=5)
      >>> nw.solve("design")
      >>> round(c.T.val, 2)
      31.94
      >>> c.set_attr(td_dew=-5)
      >>> nw.solve("design")
      >>> round(c.T.val, 2)
      21.94
      >>> c.set_attr(td_dew=None, td_bubble=-5)
      >>> nw.solve("design")
      >>> round(c.T.val, 2)
      31.94
      >>> c.set_attr(td_bubble=0)
      >>> nw.solve("design")
      >>> round(c.T.val, 2)
      26.94

  (`PR #758 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/758>`__).

Other Changes
#############
- Component parameters which have :code:`structure_matrix` specified now also
  invoke equations if the do not have :code:`func` associated at the same time.
  This was already the case for mandatory constraints, but now it is also
  rolled out to the parameters
  (`PR #756 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/756>`__).
- Selection of mass flow starting values, where no value is available is now
  reproducibly random
  (`PR #755 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/755>`__).
- Fix a couple of broken internal links
  (`PR #757 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/757>`__).
- Immediately check temperature difference unit compatibility when specifying
  via :code:`set_defaults`
  (`PR #764 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/764>`__).
- Make a modification to the :code:`_calc_td_log` method of
  :code:`SimpleHeatExchanger` classes to enable simulations with tiny
  temperature difference between fluid outlet and ambient temperature
  (`PR #761 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/761>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- The post-processing of the components and connections now does not overwrite
  user specified values anymore. Instead a warning is issued
  (`PR #767 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/767>`__).
- Component properties are saved and exported with units and reading design
  point information for components considers the unit specification
  (`PR #771 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/771>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
