v0.9.10 - Under Development
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- The :code:`MovingBoundaryHeatExchanger` now handles a pressure drop by
  assuming linear change of pressure with enthalpy. Furthermore, this
  capability is integrated into the :code:`SectionedHeatExchanger`, which uses
  the specified number of sections and inserts the phase change boundaries
  additionally into its sections. With this the :code:`SectionedHeatExchanger`
  also identifies phase changes correctly
  (`PR #851 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/851>`__).

Other changes
#############
- Physical exergy evaluation: Introduced a robust, domain-safe fallback for
  cases where CoolProp cannot evaluate ambient-state properties
  :code:`h(p0, T0)` or :code:`s(p0, T0)`. When the ambient temperature
  :code:`T0` is below the FluidPropertyWrapper's minimum supported temperature,
  TESPy now evaluates the reference state at the wrapper's :code:`Tmin` (offset
  by :code:`1e-6 K` to avoid boundary issues) and calculates the physical
  exergy with respect to that temperature without exergy splitting
  (`PR #828 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/828>`__).
- Numerical derivative calculation is now done with a different delta for the
  central differences of the variables. Instead of having a fixed absolute
  delta, the delta is relative to size or absolute for variable values that
  are very close to zero
  (`PR #851 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/851>`__).

Bug Fixes
#########
- Fix a bug which prevented unsetting component characteristics and properties
  stored in `SimpleDataContainer`
  (`PR #847 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/847>`__).
- Fix a bug which prevented functions with multiple equations of returning
  numpy arrays instead of a list `SimpleDataContainer`
  (`PR #850 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/850>`__).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (`@fwitte <https://github.com/fwitte>`__)
- `@sertomas <https://github.com/sertomas>`__
