docs/knowledge_center/educational_resources.rst, before:

.. _education_label:

Educational Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The cards below link available university courses and teaching material
specifically for tespy or using it in the context of the topic

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 1

    .. grid-item-card::  Model thermodynamic systems with tespy
        :link: https://github.com/IljaTuschy/tespy-znes-course/

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/heat_exchangers/SectionedHeatExchanger_vs_HeatExchanger.svg
            :class: only-light

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/heat_exchangers/SectionedHeatExchanger_vs_HeatExchanger_darkmode.svg
            :class: only-dark

    .. grid-item-card::  Build component based systems at the example of a simple heat pump
        :link: https://fwitte.github.io/intro-to-thermal-engineering/

        .. image:: /_static/images/system.svg
            :class: only-light

        .. image:: /_static/images/system_darkmode.svg
            :class: only-dark

    .. grid-item-card::  Simulate and analyse concentrating solar power systems
        :link: https://github.com/ddceruti/csp-exercises/

        .. image:: /_static/images/segs.jpeg

        Image Source [#f1]_

    .. grid-item-card::  Integrate thermodynamic models with economic dispatch assessment
        :link: https://oemof.github.io/heat-pump-tutorial/

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/osmses-2023.svg
            :class: only-light

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/osmses-2023_darkmode.svg
            :class: only-dark

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] By USA.Gov - BLM - BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT - http://www.ca.blm.gov/cdd/alternative_energy.html, Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=15957890

Commit message:

Add some notes on the eduactional resources

docs/knowledge_center/educational_resources.rst, after:

.. _education_label:

Educational Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The cards below link available university courses and teaching material
specifically for tespy or using it in the context of the topic

.. grid:: 2
    :gutter: 1

    .. grid-item-card::  Model thermodynamic systems with tespy
        :link: https://github.com/IljaTuschy/tespy-znes-course/

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/heat_exchangers/SectionedHeatExchanger_vs_HeatExchanger.svg
            :class: only-light

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/heat_exchangers/SectionedHeatExchanger_vs_HeatExchanger_darkmode.svg
            :class: only-dark

        This is a complete master course with slides, exercises and
        documentation in the form of a script. The course is still under
        development and the script is not yet complete.

    .. grid-item-card::  Build component based systems at the example of a simple heat pump
        :link: https://fwitte.github.io/intro-to-thermal-engineering/

        .. image:: /_static/images/system.svg
            :class: only-light

        .. image:: /_static/images/system_darkmode.svg
            :class: only-dark

        This introduces the fundamental concepts of component based
        thermodynamic modeling and three different solution approaches (at the)
        example of a heat pump. These are sequential and equation based models,
        and then how to model the same system using tespy.

    .. grid-item-card::  Simulate and analyse concentrating solar power systems
        :link: https://github.com/ddceruti/csp-exercises/

        .. image:: /_static/images/segs.jpeg

        This course is a short introduction to modeling concentrating solar
        power systems starting from solar irradiation calculations, considering
        different types of solar collectors and then using tespy to analyse
        Rankine cycles and supercritical CO<sub>2</sub> power cycles.

        Image Source [#f1]_

    .. grid-item-card::  Integrate thermodynamic models with economic dispatch assessment
        :link: https://oemof.github.io/heat-pump-tutorial/

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/osmses-2023.svg
            :class: only-light

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/osmses-2023_darkmode.svg
            :class: only-dark

        This workshop is an introduction how to connect thermodynamic modeling
        of a heat pump with a dispatch optimization problem.

    .. grid-item-card::  Introduction to exergy analysis
        :link: https://fwitte.github.io/TESPy_teaching_exergy/

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/osmses-2023.svg
            :class: only-light

        .. image:: /_static/images/tutorials/osmses-2023_darkmode.svg
            :class: only-dark

        These resources show how exergy analysis works fundamentally and how it
        can be carried out automatically with tespy.

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] By USA.Gov - BLM - BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT - http://www.ca.blm.gov/cdd/alternative_energy.html, Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=15957890
