v0.0.5 (October, 25, 2018)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- added new component: motoric cogeneration unit (`79a1177 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/79a1177d5db130465676907d9a51b680005bdc7a>`_). An example is provided `here <https://github.com/fwitte/tespy_examples/tree/master/cogeneration_unit>`_.
- improved fluid property checks (`8adc76c <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/8adc76c25ef976ed90ac6fba0d8c2f94e43ca7c5>`_).
- added bus characteristics for modeling variable efficiencys (e. g. for generator, motor, boiler) (`79a1177 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/79a1177d5db130465676907d9a51b680005bdc7a>`_).
- isentropic efficiency characteristic for compressor linked to pressure ratio (`85d317d <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/85d317dea8cce8b7f6d149cca90317e6595a2485>`_).
- added volumetric flow specification (`63db64d <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/63db64de7fc5a26eb4d36b94bdd67fc3a4f7f715>`_).

Documentation
#############
- adapted documentation and (`example code <https://github.com/fwitte/tespy_examples>`_) in regard of new features.
- fixed some typos in documentation.

Parameter renaming
##################

**compressor**
- vigv -> igva (inlet guide vane angle)

**simple heat exchanger**
- t_a -> Tamb (ambient temperature)

**solar collector**
- t_a -> Tamb (ambient temperature)

Testing
#######

Bug fixes
#########
- fixed a bug in the function v_mix_ph (specific volume for gas mixtures) (`d487381 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/d48738163c402c17456193a17d4bce60782258d0>`_).
- fixed compressor derivatives for usage with custom variables (`71cae48 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/71cae481a2dabfdd92334f23bf87433fb4a571f7>`_).
- adjusted error messages (`cccd89c <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/cccd89c6b1648be3e1819deccecc0df69ca92ba4>`_).
- removed unecessary loop (`187505b <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/187505ba73b4749df6451e4d5464fc909c4f63ed>`_).
- fixed attribute handling in subsystem: condenser with subcooler (`2c926bb <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/2c926bb5cb9b9c04d5f767a2c866bba00efcf5aa>`_).

Other changes
#############
- remodeled the characteristic map for compressors: if not specified, igva is assumed to be 0° (`2425a77 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/2425a774309655f8577c5a460403e02282db0135>`_).
- redesigned the printouts for component parameters (`9465be6 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/9465be65fc74403c6f4d07c068a4727ef4149e77>`_,
  `b2c0897 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/b2c08977d10b11c370089f87d5838fd4ff59c906>`_,
  `cbbc1a1 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/cbbc1a1438d250074b1a556df4ec21424eb53d34>`_,
  `1e55e36 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/1e55e36b5aa9bbfda15537cc305379f5198edeca>`_,
  `2e795c2 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/2e795c2af35a9b6ad3af1834cfc9b7c01f9da3a4>`_)
- custom variables are available for (`977a5be <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/977a5be7f8441c1d67ff83feeabd13645cb51052>`_):
	- turbomachines,
	- vessels,
	- simple heat exchangers (as well as pipes and solar collctors) and
	- cogeneration unit.

Contributors
############

- Francesco Witte
- Paul Hansen
