doc/whats_new/v0-1-2.rst, before:

v0.1.2 (July, some day, 2019)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- The water electrolyzer is available as new component of TESPy (`PR #73 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/73>`_).

Documentation
#############
- Fix some typos in the docstrings and improvements of default values (`PR #69 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/69>`_ and `PR #71 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/71>`_).

Parameter renaming
##################

Testing
#######

Bug fixes
#########
- Fix convergence check for negative minimum enthalpy values (`PR #71 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/71>`_).

Other changes
#############
- Add method to calculate and export vapour mass fraction values of pure fluids in the post processing (`PR #74 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/74>`_).
- Only allow label and P as parameters for busses to avoid misleading parameter specification (`PR #78 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/78>`_).
  
.. _whats_new_012_example_label:

Water Electrolyzer Example
##########################

.. code-block:: python
	
	from tespy import cmp, con, nwk

	fluid_list = ['O2', 'H2O', 'H2']
	nw = nwk.network(fluids=fluid_list, T_unit='C', p_unit='bar')
	
	# sinks and sources
	fw = cmp.source('feed water')
	oxy = cmp.sink('oxygen sink')
	hydro = cmp.sink('hydrogen sink')
	cw = cmp.source('cooling water')
	cw_hot = cmp.sink('cooling water out')
	
	# specification of electrolysis efficiency
	el = cmp.water_electrolyzer('electrolyzer 1', eta=0.8, design=['eta'], offdesign=['eta_char'])
	
	# hydrogen compression
	comp = cmp.compressor('compressor', eta_s=0.9)

	# specify the feed water mass flow
	# the fluid composition at the feed water inlet and the oxygen as well as
	# hydrogen outlets are not required. These parameters are set automatically.
	fw_el = con.connection(fw, 'out1', el, 'in2', m=0.1, p=10, T=15)
	el_o = con.connection(el, 'out2', oxy, 'in1')
	el_cmp = con.connection(el, 'out3', comp, 'in1', T=50)
	cmp_h = con.connection(comp, 'out1', hydro, 'in1', p=50)
	
	# cooling water specifications
	cw_el = con.connection(cw, 'out1', el, 'in1', fluid={'H2O': 1, 'H2': 0, 'O2': 0}, p=5, T=15)
	el_cw = con.connection(el, 'out1', cw_hot, 'in1', T=45, p=4.9)
	nw.add_conns(fw_el, el_o, el_cmp, cmp_h, cw_el, el_cw)
	
	# solve design case
	nw.solve('design')
	nw.save('tmp')
	# test offdesign case
	nw.solve('offdesign', design_path='tmp')
	
	# change feed water flow and recalculate operation
	fw_el.set_attr(m=0.05)
	nw.solve('offdesign', design_path='tmp')

Contributors
############

- Francesco Witte
- Tim Hoener, Nils Stolze, Markus Brandt

Commit message:

update what's new section for PR79

doc/whats_new/v0-1-2.rst, after:

v0.1.2 (July, some day, 2019)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- The water electrolyzer is available as new component of TESPy (`PR #73 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/73>`_).
- The components :py:class:`Combustion chamber <tespy.components.components.combustion_chamber>` and :py:class:`Cogeneration unit <tespy.components.components.cogeneration_unit>`
  now work with fuel mixtures, too. Specification of the component's fuel is not required anymore, the software automatically detects,
  which fuels are connected to the component's inlets. Available fuels are: methane, ethane, propane, butane and hydrogen (`PR #79 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/79>`_).

Documentation
#############
- Fix some typos in the docstrings and improvements of default values (`PR #69 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/69>`_ and `PR #71 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/71>`_).
- Update combustion chamber tutorial (`PR #79 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/79>`_).

Parameter renaming
##################

Testing
#######

Bug fixes
#########
- Fix convergence check for negative minimum enthalpy values (`PR #71 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/71>`_).
- Add an error message if the user did not add any connections to the network (`PR #79 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/79>`_).

Other changes
#############
- Add method to calculate and export vapour mass fraction values of pure fluids in the post processing (`PR #74 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/74>`_).
- Only allow label and P as parameters for busses to avoid misleading parameter specification (`PR #78 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/78>`_).
  
.. _whats_new_012_example_label:

Water Electrolyzer Example
##########################

.. code-block:: python
	
	from tespy import cmp, con, nwk

	fluid_list = ['O2', 'H2O', 'H2']
	nw = nwk.network(fluids=fluid_list, T_unit='C', p_unit='bar')
	
	# sinks and sources
	fw = cmp.source('feed water')
	oxy = cmp.sink('oxygen sink')
	hydro = cmp.sink('hydrogen sink')
	cw = cmp.source('cooling water')
	cw_hot = cmp.sink('cooling water out')
	
	# specification of electrolysis efficiency
	el = cmp.water_electrolyzer('electrolyzer 1', eta=0.8, design=['eta'], offdesign=['eta_char'])
	
	# hydrogen compression
	comp = cmp.compressor('compressor', eta_s=0.9)

	# specify the feed water mass flow
	# the fluid composition at the feed water inlet and the oxygen as well as
	# hydrogen outlets are not required. These parameters are set automatically.
	fw_el = con.connection(fw, 'out1', el, 'in2', m=0.1, p=10, T=15)
	el_o = con.connection(el, 'out2', oxy, 'in1')
	el_cmp = con.connection(el, 'out3', comp, 'in1', T=50)
	cmp_h = con.connection(comp, 'out1', hydro, 'in1', p=50)
	
	# cooling water specifications
	cw_el = con.connection(cw, 'out1', el, 'in1', fluid={'H2O': 1, 'H2': 0, 'O2': 0}, p=5, T=15)
	el_cw = con.connection(el, 'out1', cw_hot, 'in1', T=45, p=4.9)
	nw.add_conns(fw_el, el_o, el_cmp, cmp_h, cw_el, el_cw)
	
	# solve design case
	nw.solve('design')
	nw.save('tmp')
	# test offdesign case
	nw.solve('offdesign', design_path='tmp')
	
	# change feed water flow and recalculate operation
	fw_el.set_attr(m=0.05)
	nw.solve('offdesign', design_path='tmp')

Contributors
############

- Francesco Witte
- Tim Hoener, Nils Stolze, Markus Brandt
