v0.1.3 (to be dated)
++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Individual design path specification is available: Specify the design_path individually for single connections or a components in your network, if 
  you want the individual design parameters be loaded from a different design case than the network's design case given in the network's
  design path (`PR #84 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/84>`_).
- Implement warning messages for all components, if the component's properties are out of physical bounds. The bounds can be customized when specifying a property
  by data containers (read more at :ref:`component parameter specification <using_tespy_components_parametrisation_label>`), (`PR #85 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/85>`_).

Documentation
#############

Parameter renaming
##################

Testing
#######
- Added tests for the new design path feature (`PR #84 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/84>`_).

Bug fixes
#########
- Offdesign values for connections are specified from the design case files (`PR #84 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/84>`_). Before, the offdesign values
  were the actual values of the fluid property in the last calculation (which is not necessarily the design case).
- Add debug logging message, if the enthalpy is adjusted on connections with the keyword :code:`state` specified (`PR #85 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/85>`_).

Other changes
#############
- Improved calculation speed for fluid mixture properties with the parameter T0 as starting value for root finding (`PR #84 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/84>`_).
  
Contributors
############

- Francesco Witte
