doc/whats_new/v0-2-0.rst, before:

v0.2.0 (to be dated)
++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Implemented a new component "cycle_closer". This component may serve as substitute for a 
  sink/source or splitter/merge combination in closed cycle simulations (`PR #107 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/107>`_).

Documentation
#############
- Fix typos in docstrings in components module (`PR #102 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/102>`_).

Parameter renaming
##################
- New name for *cogeneration_unit*: **combustion_engine** (`PR #105 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/105>`_)
- New name for *subsys_interface*: **subsystem_interface** (`PR #107 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/107>`_)
- The module import shortcuts (:code:`from tespy import ...`) for components (cmp), connections (con), helpers (hlp), logger (logger),
  networks (nwk), network_reader (nwkr) are **no longer supported**! Please read the :ref:`example section below <tespy_v020_examples_label>` for more information
  (`PR #108 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/108>`_).

Testing
#######

Bug fixes
#########

Other changes
#############

**Version 0.2.0 will not be compatible with older versions**!

Contributors
############

- Francesco Witte (@fwitte)
- Markus Brandt (@mMarBrandt)

.. _tespy_v020_examples_label:

Examples
########

TODO: Add examples with new imports

Commit message:

update what's new with solar collector optical losses

doc/whats_new/v0-2-0.rst, after:

v0.2.0 (to be dated)
++++++++++++++++++++

New Features
############
- Implemented a new component "cycle_closer". This component may serve as substitute for a 
  sink/source or splitter/merge combination in closed cycle simulations (`PR #107 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/107>`_).
- Added optical efficiency to the "solar_collector". The incoming radiation E no longer represents 
  the actual absorption but the direct radiation on the collector surface area (`PR #110 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/110>`_).

Documentation
#############
- Fix typos in docstrings in components module (`PR #102 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/102>`_).

Parameter renaming
##################
- New name for *cogeneration_unit*: **combustion_engine** (`PR #105 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/105>`_)
- New name for *subsys_interface*: **subsystem_interface** (`PR #107 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/107>`_)
- The module import shortcuts (:code:`from tespy import ...`) for components (cmp), connections (con), helpers (hlp), logger (logger),
  networks (nwk), network_reader (nwkr) are **no longer supported**! Please read the :ref:`example section below <tespy_v020_examples_label>` for more information
  (`PR #108 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/108>`_).

Testing
#######

Bug fixes
#########

Other changes
#############

**Version 0.2.0 will not be compatible with older versions**!

Contributors
############

- Francesco Witte (@fwitte)
- Markus Brandt (@mMarBrandt)

.. _tespy_v020_examples_label:

Examples
########

TODO: Add examples with new imports
