v0.2.0 (January, 14, 2020)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++
**Version 0.2.0 will not be compatible with older versions!**

The :ref:`example section below <tespy_v020_examples_label>` quickly shows,
how to modify your scripts in order to work with the new version.

New Features
############
- Implemented a new component "cycle_closer". This component may serve as substitute for a
  sink/source or splitter/merge combination in closed cycle simulations (`PR #107 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/107>`_).
- Added optical efficiency to the "solar_collector". The incoming radiation E no longer represents
  the actual absorption but the radiation on the collector surface area (`PR #110 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/110>`_).
- Parameters :code:`local_design` and :code:`local_offdesign` are now also available for network exports and imports
  (`PR #109 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/109>`_).
- Busses, components and connections are now equipped with :code:`printout` attribute. For example, if you specify :code:`myconn.set_attr(printout=False)`
  the results of the specified connection will not be printed by the :code:`print_results` method of your network. This is especially useful, if you have a
  large network and only want to print the results at the most important points (`PR #126 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/126>`_).
- It is possible to place custom characteristic lines and maps in the :code:`HOME/.tespy/data` folder and import these
  for your TESPy scripts. Have a look at :ref:`the documentation <import_custom_characteristics_label>` for more information
  (`PR #118 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/118>`_).
- If the network check fails due to component inlets or outlets being connected to more than one connection at a time,
  all connections are printed for easier network topology debugging (`PR #135 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/135>`_).

Documentation
#############
- Full review of online documentation (`PR #112 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/112>`_).
- Full review of the examples repository (`PR #46 of oemof_examples <https://github.com/oemof/oemof_examples/pull/46>`_).
- Plots of default characteristic lines and maps are generated automatically on
  documentation build (`PR #139 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/139>`_).

Parameter renaming
##################
- New name for *cogeneration_unit*: **combustion_engine** (`PR #105 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/105>`_).
- New name for *subsys_interface*: **subsystem_interface** (`PR #107 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/107>`_).
- The module import shortcuts (:code:`from tespy import ...`) for components (cmp), connections (con),
  helpers (hlp), logger (logger), networks (nwk), network_reader (nwkr) are **no longer supported**
  (`PR #108 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/108>`_)! We instead implemented new shortcuts instead
  for tespy.networks and tespy.components modules (`PR #118 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/118>`_).
- The method :code:`set_printoptions` for the :py:class:`tespy.networks.networks.network` class is not available anymore.
  Use :code:`yournetwork.set_attr(iterinfo=True/False)` in future (`PR #109 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/109>`_).
- Parameter :code:`interface` for sinks and sources has been removed (`PR #109 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/109>`_).
- The method for loading networks from the network_reader module has been renamed from :code:`load_nwk` to
  :code:`load_network` (`PR #118 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/118>`_).

Testing
#######
- Improved doc-test for class tespy_fluid (`PR #109 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/109>`_).
- Add doc-test for fluid_structure function of tespy.tools.helpers (`PR #109 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/109>`_).
- Reworked a lot of examples in the components API-documentation (`PR #109 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/109>`_).
- Update software tests (`PR #111 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/111>`_).
- Add value limit test for newton-algorithm (`PR #129 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/129>`_).

Bug fixes
#########
- Bus value specification uses :code:`is_set` instead of :code:`val_set` as the component
  properties data container is used (`39ca830 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/commit/39ca830c05f6b97a2e4867265ce1de32f6a6f2bc>`_).
- Parameters :code:`local_design` and :code:`local_offdesign` are now also available for network exports and imports (`PR #109 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/109>`_).
- Busses and characteristics are not exported, if none are used in the network. The network_reader can now
  handle missing bus.csv, char_line.csv and char_map.csv (`PR #127 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/127>`_).
- Some parameters of class :py:class:`combustion_engine <tespy.components.combustion.combustion_engine>` have been
  printed out twice in the value range check (`PR #135 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/135>`_).

Other changes
#############
- Adjust logging levels for grouped component parameter initialisation (`PR #111 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/111>`_).
- Implement pep8speaks (PEP8 checker) in GitHub repository (`PR #131 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/131>`_).
- The subsystem architecture has been simplified. Your connections and components are saved to dictionaries to make
  accessing the individual properties much easier (`PR #126 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/126>`_). For a use
  case of subsystems, have a look at the :ref:`district heating example <dh_example_label>`.
- Change the specification of set value for :py:class:`dc_simple <tespy.tools.data_containers.dc_simple>`
  class from :code:`val_set` to :code:`is_set` (`PR #138 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/138>`_).
- Move the default characteristic function plots to the :py:mod:`tespy.data <tespy.data>` module documentation
  (`PR #138 <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/pull/138>`_).

Contributors
############
- Francesco Witte (@fwitte)
- @MarBrandt
- @maltefritz
- @stianchris
- @jfreissmann
- @FranziPl

.. _tespy_v020_examples_label:

Examples
########

**Removed default import shortcuts**

*tespy 0.1.x*

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy import cmp, cmp_char, con, hlp, logger, nwk, nwkr, subsys

*tespy 0.2.x (example imports)*

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.components import heat_exchanger, turbine
    from tespy.connections import connection, bus, ref
    from tespy.networks import network, load_network
    from tespy.tools import char_line, char_map
    from tespy.tools import logger

**Renaming components**

*tespy 0.1.x*

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy import cmp
    chp = cmp.cogeneration_unit('combined heat and power')
    IF = cmp.subsys_interface('subsystem interface')  

*tespy 0.2.x*

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.components import combustion_engine, subsystem_interface
    chp = combustion_engine('combined heat and power')
    IF = subsystem_interface('subsystem interface')

**Renaming tespy.networks functionalities**

*tespy 0.1.x*

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy import nwkr
    mynetwork = nwkr.load_nwk('path/to/exported/networkfiles')
    mynetwork.set_printoptions(print_level='none')
    mynetwork.set_printoptions(print_level='info')

*tespy 0.2.x*

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.networks import load_network
    mynetwork = load_network('path/to/exported/networkfiles')
    mynetwork.set_attr(iterinfo=False)
    mynetwork.set_attr(iterinfo=True)

**Component characteristic specification**

*tespy 0.1.x*

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy import cmp, hlp
    turb = cmp.turbine('turbine')
    x = [0.50, 0.75, 1.00, 1.25]
    y = [0.90, 0.98, 1.00, 0.99]
    char = hlp.dc_cc(is_set=True, x=x, y=y)
    turb.set_attr(eta_s_char=char)

*tespy 0.2.x*

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.components import turbine
    from tespy.tools import char_line
    turb = turbine('turbine')
    x = [0.50, 0.75, 1.00, 1.25]
    y = [0.90, 0.98, 1.00, 0.99]
    char = dc_cc(is_set=True, func=char_line(x, y))
    turb.set_attr(eta_s_char=char)
