doc/tespy_modules/connections.rst, before:

Connections
===========

This section provides an overview of the parametrisation of connections, the
usage of references and busses (connections for energy flow).

Parametrisation
---------------

As mentioned in the introduction, for each connection you can specify the
following parameters:

 * mass flow* (m),
 * volumetric flow (v),
 * pressure* (p),
 * enthalpy* (h),
 * temperature* (T),
 * vapor mass fraction for pure fluids (x),
 * a fluid vector (fluid) and
 * a balance closer for the fluid vector (fluid_balance).

It is possible to specify values, starting values, references and data
containers. The data containers for connections are dc_prop for fluid
properties (mass flow, pressure, enthalpy, temperature and vapor mass
fraction) and dc_flu for fluid composition. If you want to specify
data_containers, you need to import them from the :code:`tespy.tools` module.

In order to create the connections we create the components to connect first.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.tools import dc_prop
    from tespy.connections import connection, ref
    from tespy.components import sink, source

    # create components
    source1 = source('source 1')
    source2 = source('source 2')
    sink1 = sink('sink 1')
    sink2 = sink('sink 2')

    # create connections
    myconn = connection(source1, 'out1', sink1, 'in1')
    myotherconn = connection(source2, 'out1', sink2, 'in1')

    # set pressure and vapor mass fraction by value, temperature and enthalpy
    # analogously
    myconn.set_attr(p=7, x=0.5)

    # set starting values for mass flow, pressure and enthalpy (has no effect
    # on temperature and vapor mass fraction!)
    myconn.set_attr(m0=10, p0=15, h0=100)

    # do the same with a data container
    myconn.set_attr(p=dc_prop(val=7, val_set=True),
                    x=dc_prop(val=0.5, val_set=True))
    myconn.set_attr(m=dc_prop(val0=10), p=dc_prop(val0=15),
                    h=dc_prop(val0=100))

    # specify a value in a different unit for a specific parameter
    myconn.set_attr(p=dc_prop(val=7, val_set=True, unit='MPa', unit_set=True)

    # specify a referenced value: pressure of myconn is 1.2 times pressure at
    # myotherconn minus 5 Pa (always SI unit here)
    myconn.set_attr(p=ref(myotherconn, 1.2, -5))

    # specify value and reference at the same time
    myconn.set_attr(p=dc_prop(val=7, val_set=True,
                    ref=ref(myotherconn, 1.2, -5), ref_set=True))

    # possibilities to unset values
    myconn.set_attr(p=np.nan)
    myconn.set_attr(p=None)
    myconn.p.set_attr(val_set=False, ref_set=False)

If you want to specify the fluid vector you can do it in the following way.

.. note::

    If you specify a fluid, use the fluid's name and do not include the fluid
    property back end.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.tools import dc_flu

    # set both elements of the fluid vector
    myconn.set_attr(fluid={'water': 1, 'air': 0})
    # same thing, but using data container
    myconn.set_attr(fluid=dc_flu(val={'water': 1, 'air': 0},
                    val_set:{'water': True, 'air': True}))

    # set starting values
    myconn.set_attr(fluid0={'water': 1, 'air': 0})
    # same thing, but using data container
    myconn.set_attr(fluid=dc_flu(val0={'water': 1, 'air': 0}))

    # unset full fluid vector
    myconn.set_attr(fluid=None)
    # unset part of fluid vector
    myconn.fluid.set_attr(val_set={'water': False})

.. note::

    References can not be used for fluid composition at the moment!

You may want to access the network's connections other than using the variable
names, for example in an imported network or connections from a subsystem. It
is possible to access these using the connection's label. By default, the label
is generated by this logic:

:code:`source:source_id_target:target_id`, where

- :code:`source` and :code:`target` are the  labels of the components that are
  connected.
- :code:`source_id` and :code:`target_id` are e. g. :code:`out1` and
  :code:`in2` respectively.

.. code-block:: python

    mynetwork.connections['myconnectionlabel'].set_attr(p=1e5)

.. note::

    Once added to the network, changing the label of a connection will not
    affect the network. Thus, you should label your connections before adding
    them to the network!

.. _tespy_busses_label:

Busses
------

Busses are energy flow connectors. You can sum the energy flow of different
components and create relations between components regarding mass independent
energy transport.

Different use-cases for busses could be:

- post-processing
- introduce motor or generator efficiencies
- create relations of different components

The handling of busses is very similar to connections and components. You need
to add components to your busses as a dictionary containing at least the
instance of your component. Additionally you may provide a characteristic line,
linking the ratio of actual value to a referenced value (design case value) to
an efficiency factor the component value of the bus is multiplied with. For
instance, you can provide a characteristic line of an electrical generator or
motor for a variable conversion efficiency. The referenced value is retrieved
by the design point of your system. Offdesign calculations use the referenced
value from your system's design point for the characteristic line. In design
case, the ratio will always be 1.

.. note::

    The available keywords for the dictionary are:

    - 'comp' for the component instance.
    - 'param' for the parameter (e. g. the combustion engine has various
      parameters, have a look at the
      :ref:`combustion engine example <combustion_engine_label>`)
    - 'char' for the characteristic line
    - 'base' the base for efficiency definition
    - 'P_ref' for the reference value of the component

    There are different specification possibilities:

    - If you specify the component only, the parameter will be default and the
      efficiency factor of the characteristic line will be 1 independent of
      the load.
    - If you specify a numeric value for char, the efficiency factor will be
      equal to that value independet of the load.
    - If you want to specify a characteristic line, provide
      a :py:class:`char_line <tespy.tools.characteristics.char_line>`
      object.
    - Specify :code:`'base': 'bus'` if you want to change from the default base
      to the bus as base. This means, that the definition of the efficiency
      factor will change according to your specification.

      .. math ::

          \eta = \begin{cases}
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{component}}{\dot{E}_\mathrm{bus}} &
          \text{'base': 'bus'}\\
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{bus}}{\dot{E}_\mathrm{component}} &
          \text{'base': 'component'}
          \end{cases}

      This applies to the calculation of the bus value analogously.

      .. math::

          \dot{E}_\mathrm{bus} = \begin{cases}
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{component}}{f\left(
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{bus}}{\dot{E}_\mathrm{bus,ref}}\right)} &
          \text{'base': 'bus'}\\
          \dot{E}_\mathrm{component} \cdot f\left(
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{component}}
          {\dot{E}_\mathrm{component,ref}}\right) &
          \text{'base': 'component'}
          \end{cases}

The examples below show the implementation of busses in your TESPy simulation.

Create a pump that is powered by a turbine. The turbine's :code:`turbine_fwp`
power output must therefore be equal to the pump's :code:`fwp` power
consumption.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.networks import network
    from tespy.components import pump, turbine, combustion_engine
    from tespy.connections import bus

    # the total power on this bus must be zero
    # this way we can make sure the power of the turbine has the same value as
    # the pump's power but with negative sign
    fwp_bus = bus('feed water pump bus', P=0)
    fwp_bus.add_comps({'comp': turbine_fwp}, {'comp': fwp})
    my_network.add_busses(fwp_bus)

Create two turbines :code:`turbine1` and :code:`turbine2` which have the same
power output.

.. code:: python

    # the total power on this bus must be zero, too
    # we make sure the two turbines yield the same power output by adding the char
    # parameter for the second turbine and using -1 as char
    turbine_bus = bus('turbines', P=0)
    turbine_bus.add_comps({'comp': turbine_1}, {'comp': turbine_2, 'char': -1})
    my_network.add_busses(turbine_bus)

Create a bus for post-processing purpose only. Include a characteristic line
for a generator and add two turbines :code:`turbine_hp` and :code:`turbine_lp`
to the bus.

.. code:: python

    # bus for postprocessing, no power (or heat flow) specified but with variable
    # conversion efficiency
    power_bus = bus('power output')
    x = np.array([0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0, 1.1])
    y = np.array([0.85, 0.93, 0.95, 0.96, 0.97, 0.96])
    # create a characteristic line for a generator
    gen1 = char_line(x=x, y=y)
    gen2 = char_line(x=x, y=y)
    power.add_comps(
        {'comp': turbine_hp, 'char': gen1},
        {'comp': turbine_lp, 'char': gen2})
    my_network.add_busses(power_bus)

Create a bus for the electrical power output of a combustion engine
:code:`comb_engine`. Use a generator for power conversion and specify the total
power output.

.. code:: python

    # bus for combustion engine power
    x = np.array([0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0, 1.1])
    y = np.array([0.85, 0.93, 0.95, 0.96, 0.97, 0.96])
    # create a characteristic line for a generator
    gen = char_line(x=x, y=y)
    el_power_bus = bus('combustion engine power', P=10e6)
    el_power_bus.add_comps({'comp': comb_engine, 'param': 'P', 'char': gen})

Create a bus for the electrical power input of a pump :code:`pu` with
:code:`'bus'` and with :code:`'component'` as base. In both cases. the value of
the component power will be identical. Due to the different efficiency
definitions the value of the bus power will differ in partload.

.. code:: python

    import numpy as np
    from tespy.components import pump, sink, source
    from tespy.connections import bus, connection
    from tespy.networks import network
    from tespy.tools.characteristics import char_line

    nw = network(fluids=['H2O'], p_unit='bar', T_unit='C')

    si = sink('sink')
    so = source('source')
    pu = pump('pump')

    so_pu = connection(so, 'out1', pu, 'in1')
    pu_si = connection(pu, 'out1', si, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(so_pu, pu_si)

    # bus for combustion engine power
    x = np.array([0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0, 1.1])
    y = np.array([0.85, 0.93, 0.95, 0.96, 0.97, 0.96])
    # create a characteristic line for a generator
    mot_bus_based = char_line(x=x, y=y)
    mot_comp_based = char_line(x=x, y=1 / y)
    bus1 = bus('pump power bus based')
    bus1.add_comps({'comp': pu, 'char': mot_bus_based, 'base': 'bus'})
    # the keyword 'base': 'component' is the default value, therefore it does
    # not need to be passed
    bus2 = bus('pump power component based')
    bus2.add_comps({'comp': pu, 'char': mot_comp_based})

    nw.add_busses(bus1, bus2)

    so_pu.set_attr(fluid={'H2O': 1}, m=10, p=5, T=20)
    pu_si.set_attr(p=10)

    pu.set_attr(eta_s=0.75)

    nw.solve('design')
    nw.save('tmp')
    print('Bus based efficiency:', pu.calc_bus_efficiency(bus1))
    print('Component based efficiency:', 1 / pu.calc_bus_efficiency(bus2))
    print('Bus based bus power:', pu.calc_bus_value(bus1))
    print('Component based bus power:', pu.calc_bus_value(bus2))

    so_pu.set_attr(m=9)
    nw.solve('offdesign', design_path='tmp')
    print('Bus based efficiency:', pu.calc_bus_efficiency(bus1))
    print('Component based efficiency:', 1 / pu.calc_bus_efficiency(bus2))
    print('Bus based bus power:', pu.calc_bus_value(bus1))
    print('Component based bus power:', pu.calc_bus_value(bus2))


.. note::

    The x-values of the characteristic line represent the relative load of the
    component: actual value of the bus divided by the reference/design point
    value. In design-calculations the x-value used in the function evaluation
    will always be at 1.

As mentioned in the component section: It is also possible to import your
custom characteristics from the :code:`HOME/.tespy/data` folder. Read more
about this :ref:`here <using_tespy_characteristics_label>`.

Commit message:

Add bus efficiency and value calculation to documentation

doc/tespy_modules/connections.rst, after:

Connections
===========

This section provides an overview of the parametrisation of connections, the
usage of references and busses (connections for energy flow).

Parametrisation
---------------

As mentioned in the introduction, for each connection you can specify the
following parameters:

 * mass flow* (m),
 * volumetric flow (v),
 * pressure* (p),
 * enthalpy* (h),
 * temperature* (T),
 * vapor mass fraction for pure fluids (x),
 * a fluid vector (fluid) and
 * a balance closer for the fluid vector (fluid_balance).

It is possible to specify values, starting values, references and data
containers. The data containers for connections are dc_prop for fluid
properties (mass flow, pressure, enthalpy, temperature and vapor mass
fraction) and dc_flu for fluid composition. If you want to specify
data_containers, you need to import them from the :code:`tespy.tools` module.

In order to create the connections we create the components to connect first.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.tools import dc_prop
    from tespy.connections import connection, ref
    from tespy.components import sink, source

    # create components
    source1 = source('source 1')
    source2 = source('source 2')
    sink1 = sink('sink 1')
    sink2 = sink('sink 2')

    # create connections
    myconn = connection(source1, 'out1', sink1, 'in1')
    myotherconn = connection(source2, 'out1', sink2, 'in1')

    # set pressure and vapor mass fraction by value, temperature and enthalpy
    # analogously
    myconn.set_attr(p=7, x=0.5)

    # set starting values for mass flow, pressure and enthalpy (has no effect
    # on temperature and vapor mass fraction!)
    myconn.set_attr(m0=10, p0=15, h0=100)

    # do the same with a data container
    myconn.set_attr(p=dc_prop(val=7, val_set=True),
                    x=dc_prop(val=0.5, val_set=True))
    myconn.set_attr(m=dc_prop(val0=10), p=dc_prop(val0=15),
                    h=dc_prop(val0=100))

    # specify a value in a different unit for a specific parameter
    myconn.set_attr(p=dc_prop(val=7, val_set=True, unit='MPa', unit_set=True)

    # specify a referenced value: pressure of myconn is 1.2 times pressure at
    # myotherconn minus 5 Pa (always SI unit here)
    myconn.set_attr(p=ref(myotherconn, 1.2, -5))

    # specify value and reference at the same time
    myconn.set_attr(p=dc_prop(val=7, val_set=True,
                    ref=ref(myotherconn, 1.2, -5), ref_set=True))

    # possibilities to unset values
    myconn.set_attr(p=np.nan)
    myconn.set_attr(p=None)
    myconn.p.set_attr(val_set=False, ref_set=False)

If you want to specify the fluid vector you can do it in the following way.

.. note::

    If you specify a fluid, use the fluid's name and do not include the fluid
    property back end.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.tools import dc_flu

    # set both elements of the fluid vector
    myconn.set_attr(fluid={'water': 1, 'air': 0})
    # same thing, but using data container
    myconn.set_attr(fluid=dc_flu(val={'water': 1, 'air': 0},
                    val_set:{'water': True, 'air': True}))

    # set starting values
    myconn.set_attr(fluid0={'water': 1, 'air': 0})
    # same thing, but using data container
    myconn.set_attr(fluid=dc_flu(val0={'water': 1, 'air': 0}))

    # unset full fluid vector
    myconn.set_attr(fluid=None)
    # unset part of fluid vector
    myconn.fluid.set_attr(val_set={'water': False})

.. note::

    References can not be used for fluid composition at the moment!

You may want to access the network's connections other than using the variable
names, for example in an imported network or connections from a subsystem. It
is possible to access these using the connection's label. By default, the label
is generated by this logic:

:code:`source:source_id_target:target_id`, where

- :code:`source` and :code:`target` are the  labels of the components that are
  connected.
- :code:`source_id` and :code:`target_id` are e. g. :code:`out1` and
  :code:`in2` respectively.

.. code-block:: python

    mynetwork.connections['myconnectionlabel'].set_attr(p=1e5)

.. note::

    Once added to the network, changing the label of a connection will not
    affect the network. Thus, you should label your connections before adding
    them to the network!

.. _tespy_busses_label:

Busses
------

Busses are energy flow connectors. You can sum the energy flow of different
components and create relations between components regarding mass independent
energy transport.

Different use-cases for busses could be:

- post-processing
- introduce motor or generator efficiencies
- create relations of different components

The handling of busses is very similar to connections and components. You need
to add components to your busses as a dictionary containing at least the
instance of your component. Additionally you may provide a characteristic line,
linking the ratio of actual value to a referenced value (design case value) to
an efficiency factor the component value of the bus is multiplied with. For
instance, you can provide a characteristic line of an electrical generator or
motor for a variable conversion efficiency. The referenced value is retrieved
by the design point of your system. Offdesign calculations use the referenced
value from your system's design point for the characteristic line. In design
case, the ratio will always be 1.

After a simulation, it is possible to output the efficiency of a component on
a bus and to output the bus value of the component using

- :code:`mycomponent.calc_bus_efficiency(mybus)`
- :code:`mycomponent.calc_bus_value(mybus)`

.. note::

    The available keywords for the dictionary are:

    - 'comp' for the component instance.
    - 'param' for the parameter (e. g. the combustion engine has various
      parameters, have a look at the
      :ref:`combustion engine example <combustion_engine_label>`)
    - 'char' for the characteristic line
    - 'base' the base for efficiency definition
    - 'P_ref' for the reference value of the component

    There are different specification possibilities:

    - If you specify the component only, the parameter will be default and the
      efficiency factor of the characteristic line will be 1 independent of
      the load.
    - If you specify a numeric value for char, the efficiency factor will be
      equal to that value independent of the load.
    - If you want to specify a characteristic line, provide
      a :py:class:`char_line <tespy.tools.characteristics.char_line>`
      object.
    - Specify :code:`'base': 'bus'` if you want to change from the default base
      to the bus as base. This means, that the definition of the efficiency
      factor will change according to your specification.

      .. math ::

          \eta = \begin{cases}
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{component}}{\dot{E}_\mathrm{bus}} &
          \text{'base': 'bus'}\\
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{bus}}{\dot{E}_\mathrm{component}} &
          \text{'base': 'component'}
          \end{cases}

      This applies to the calculation of the bus value analogously.

      .. math::

          \dot{E}_\mathrm{bus} = \begin{cases}
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{component}}{f\left(
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{bus}}{\dot{E}_\mathrm{bus,ref}}\right)} &
          \text{'base': 'bus'}\\
          \dot{E}_\mathrm{component} \cdot f\left(
          \frac{\dot{E}_\mathrm{component}}
          {\dot{E}_\mathrm{component,ref}}\right) &
          \text{'base': 'component'}
          \end{cases}

The examples below show the implementation of busses in your TESPy simulation.

Create a pump that is powered by a turbine. The turbine's :code:`turbine_fwp`
power output must therefore be equal to the pump's :code:`fwp` power
consumption.

.. code-block:: python

    from tespy.networks import network
    from tespy.components import pump, turbine, combustion_engine
    from tespy.connections import bus

    # the total power on this bus must be zero
    # this way we can make sure the power of the turbine has the same value as
    # the pump's power but with negative sign
    fwp_bus = bus('feed water pump bus', P=0)
    fwp_bus.add_comps({'comp': turbine_fwp}, {'comp': fwp})
    my_network.add_busses(fwp_bus)

Create two turbines :code:`turbine1` and :code:`turbine2` which have the same
power output.

.. code:: python

    # the total power on this bus must be zero, too
    # we make sure the two turbines yield the same power output by adding the char
    # parameter for the second turbine and using -1 as char
    turbine_bus = bus('turbines', P=0)
    turbine_bus.add_comps({'comp': turbine_1}, {'comp': turbine_2, 'char': -1})
    my_network.add_busses(turbine_bus)

Create a bus for post-processing purpose only. Include a characteristic line
for a generator and add two turbines :code:`turbine_hp` and :code:`turbine_lp`
to the bus.

.. code:: python

    # bus for postprocessing, no power (or heat flow) specified but with variable
    # conversion efficiency
    power_bus = bus('power output')
    x = np.array([0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0, 1.1])
    y = np.array([0.85, 0.93, 0.95, 0.96, 0.97, 0.96])
    # create a characteristic line for a generator
    gen1 = char_line(x=x, y=y)
    gen2 = char_line(x=x, y=y)
    power.add_comps(
        {'comp': turbine_hp, 'char': gen1},
        {'comp': turbine_lp, 'char': gen2})
    my_network.add_busses(power_bus)

Create a bus for the electrical power output of a combustion engine
:code:`comb_engine`. Use a generator for power conversion and specify the total
power output.

.. code:: python

    # bus for combustion engine power
    x = np.array([0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0, 1.1])
    y = np.array([0.85, 0.93, 0.95, 0.96, 0.97, 0.96])
    # create a characteristic line for a generator
    gen = char_line(x=x, y=y)
    el_power_bus = bus('combustion engine power', P=10e6)
    el_power_bus.add_comps({'comp': comb_engine, 'param': 'P', 'char': gen})

Create a bus for the electrical power input of a pump :code:`pu` with
:code:`'bus'` and with :code:`'component'` as base. In both cases. the value of
the component power will be identical. Due to the different efficiency
definitions the value of the bus power will differ in part load.

.. code:: python

    import numpy as np
    from tespy.components import pump, sink, source
    from tespy.connections import bus, connection
    from tespy.networks import network
    from tespy.tools.characteristics import char_line

    nw = network(fluids=['H2O'], p_unit='bar', T_unit='C')

    si = sink('sink')
    so = source('source')
    pu = pump('pump')

    so_pu = connection(so, 'out1', pu, 'in1')
    pu_si = connection(pu, 'out1', si, 'in1')

    nw.add_conns(so_pu, pu_si)

    # bus for combustion engine power
    x = np.array([0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0, 1.1])
    y = np.array([0.85, 0.93, 0.95, 0.96, 0.97, 0.96])
    # create a characteristic line for a generator
    mot_bus_based = char_line(x=x, y=y)
    mot_comp_based = char_line(x=x, y=1 / y)
    bus1 = bus('pump power bus based')
    bus1.add_comps({'comp': pu, 'char': mot_bus_based, 'base': 'bus'})
    # the keyword 'base': 'component' is the default value, therefore it does
    # not need to be passed
    bus2 = bus('pump power component based')
    bus2.add_comps({'comp': pu, 'char': mot_comp_based})

    nw.add_busses(bus1, bus2)

    so_pu.set_attr(fluid={'H2O': 1}, m=10, p=5, T=20)
    pu_si.set_attr(p=10)

    pu.set_attr(eta_s=0.75)

    nw.solve('design')
    nw.save('tmp')
    print('Bus based efficiency:', pu.calc_bus_efficiency(bus1))
    print('Component based efficiency:', 1 / pu.calc_bus_efficiency(bus2))
    print('Bus based bus power:', pu.calc_bus_value(bus1))
    print('Component based bus power:', pu.calc_bus_value(bus2))

    so_pu.set_attr(m=9)
    nw.solve('offdesign', design_path='tmp')
    print('Bus based efficiency:', pu.calc_bus_efficiency(bus1))
    print('Component based efficiency:', 1 / pu.calc_bus_efficiency(bus2))
    print('Bus based bus power:', pu.calc_bus_value(bus1))
    print('Component based bus power:', pu.calc_bus_value(bus2))


.. note::

    The x-values of the characteristic line represent the relative load of the
    component: actual value of the bus divided by the reference/design point
    value. In design-calculations the x-value used in the function evaluation
    will always be at 1.

As mentioned in the component section: It is also possible to import your
custom characteristics from the :code:`HOME/.tespy/data` folder. Read more
about this :ref:`here <using_tespy_characteristics_label>`.
