docs/developing_tespy.rst, before:

.. _developing_tespy_label:

Developing TESPy
================

TESPy has been developed mainly by Francesco Witte at the university of applied
sciences Flensburg. We hope that many people can make use of this project and
that it will be a community driven project in the future, as users might demand
special components or flexible implementations of characteristics, custom
equations, basically what ever you can think of.

We want to invite you to join the developing process and share your ideas. Your
solutions may help other users as well. Contributing to the development of
TESPy may help other people and it improves the quality of your code as it will
be reviewed by other developers.

The easiest way of joining the developing process is by improving the
documentation. If you spot mistakes or think, the documentation could be more
precise or clear in some sections, feel free to fix it and create a pull
request on the github repository.

Another simple first step is to program your own custom subsystems and share
them in the community. For a good start just look into our tutorial
:ref:`How do I create custom subsystems <tespy_subsystems_label>`.

A third, highly appreciated way for you to contribute is the provision of new
and/or improved equations, maybe even whole characteristics for single
components, such as compressor maps, characteristics for turbine efficiency or
heat transfer coefficients etc..

You will find the most important information concerning the development process
in the following sections. If you have any further questions feel free to
contact us, we are looking forward to hearing
from you!

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:
    :backlinks: top

Install the developer version
-----------------------------

It is recommenden to use
`virtual environments <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`_ for
the development process. Fork the repository and clone your forked tespy github
repository.

.. code:: bash

	git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/tespy.git

In order to stay in sync with the oemof/tespy base repository, add the link to
the oemof/tespy repository as remote to your local copy of tespy. We will call
the link "upstream". Fetch branches available and after that, you can pull
changes from a specific branch of the oemof/tespy repository (branch "dev" in
the example below).

.. code:: bash

   git remote add upstream https://github.com/oemof/tespy.git
   git fetch upstream
   git pull upstream dev

If you want to make changes to tespy, checkout a new branch from your local dev
branch. Make your changes, commit them and create a PR on the oemof/tespy dev
branch.

Your contribution
-----------------

There are different ways you can contribute

Contribute to the documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you come across typos or grammatical mistakes or want to improve
comprehensibility of the documentation, make your adjustments or suggestions
and create a pull request for the dev branch. We appreciate your contribution!

Improve or add new equations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The components equations represent the behavior of each component. Are we
missing any equations? Or do you see possibilities to improve the formulation?
Add them to your code and create a pull request on the dev branch.

Share your subsystems
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You have encountered component groups that are frequently required? Create a
subsystem to simplify your own work and share your subsystem by adding it to
the tespy.components.subsystems file.

For both, **the equations and the subsystems**, please provide the docstring
and maybe inline comments, if you want to make the code more comprehensible. In
general, your code should fit to the :ref:`style_guidlines_label`, a complete
documentation is only required, if the code will be added to TESPy permanently.

Add component characteristics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The component characteristics represent large added value for your calculation.
If you have detailed information on components offdesign behavior - even for
specific cases - it will improve the results. Every user can benefit from this
knowlegde and thus we are very happy to discuss about the implementation of new
characteristics.

Collaboration with pull requests
--------------------------------

To collaborate use the pull request functionality of github as described here:
https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/

How to create a pull request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Fork the oemof repository to your own github account.
* Change, add or remove code.
* Commit your changes.
* Create a pull request and describe what you will do and why. Please use the
  pull request template we offer. It will be shown to you when you click on
  "New pull request".
* Wait for approval.

.. _coding_requirements_label:

Generally the following steps are required when changing, adding or removing code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Read the :ref:`style_guidlines_label` and :ref:`naming_conventions_label` and
  follow them
* Add new tests according to what you have done
* Add/change the documentation (new feature, API changes ...)
* Add a What's New entry and your name to the list of contributors
* Check if all :ref:`tests_label` still work.

.. _tests_label:

Tests
-----

The tests in TESPy are split up in two different parts:

* doc-tests (also used as examples for classes and methods/functions)
* software tests (defined in the tests folder).

The tests contain code examples that expect a certain
outcome. If the outcome is as expected a test will pass, if the outcome is
different, the test will fail. You can run the tests locally by navigating into
your local github clone. The command :code:`check` tests PEP guidelines, the
command :code:`py3X` runs the software tests in the selected Python version.

.. code:: bash

    python -m tox -e check
    python -m tox -e py36
    python -m tox -e py37
    python -m tox -e py38

Additionally, all tests will run automatically when you push changes to a
branch that has a pull request opened.

If you have further questions regarding the tests, we are looking forward to
your inquiry.

.. _style_guidlines_label:

Issue-Management
----------------

A good way for communication with the developer group are issues. If you
find a bug, want to contribute an enhancement or have a question on a specific
problem in development you want to discuss, please create an issue:

* describing your point accurately
* using the list of category tags
* addressing other developers

If you want to address other developers you can use @name-of-developer, or
use e.g. @tespy to address a team. `Here <https://github.com/orgs/oemof/teams>`_
you can find an overview over existing teams on different subjects and their members.

Look at the existing issues to get an idea on the usage of issues.

Style guidelines
----------------

We mostly follow standard guidelines instead of developing own rules. So if
anything is not defined in this section, search for a
`PEP rule <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/>`_ and follow it.

Docstrings
^^^^^^^^^^

We decided to use the style of the numpydoc docstrings. See the following
link for an
`example <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/blob/master/doc/example.py>`_.


Code commenting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Code comments are block and inline comments in the source code. They can help
to understand he code and should be utilized "as much as necessary, as little
as possible". When writing comments follow the
`PEP 0008 style guide <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#comments>`_.


PEP8 (Python Style Guide)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* We adhere to `PEP8 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_ for any code
  produced in the framework.

* We use pylint to check your code. Pylint is integrated in many IDEs and
  Editors. `Check here <https://pylint.pycqa.org/en/latest/>`_ or ask the
  maintainer of your IDE or Editor

* Some IDEs have pep8 checkers, which are very helpful, especially for python
  beginners.

.. _naming_conventions_label:

Naming Conventions
------------------

* We use plural in the code for modules if there is possibly more than one
  child class (e.g. :code:`import heat_exchangers` AND NOT
  :code:`import heat_exchanger`). If there are arrays in the code that contain
  multiple elements they have to be named in plural.

* Please, follow the naming conventions of
  `pylint <http://pylint-messages.wikidot.com/messages:c0103>`_

* Use talking names

  * Variables/Objects: Name it after the data they describe
    (power\_line, wind\_speed)
  * Functions/Method: Name it after what they do: **use verbs**
    (get\_wind\_speed, set\_parameter)


Using git
---------

Branching model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

So far we adhere mostly to the git branching model by
`Vincent Driessen <https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/>`_.

Differences are:

* instead of the name ``origin/develop`` we call the branch ``origin/dev``.
* feature branches are named like ``features/*``
* release branches are named like ``releases/*``

Commit message
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use this nice little `commit tutorial <https://commit.style/>`_ to
learn how to write a nice commit message.


Documentation
----------------

The general implementation-independent documentation such as installation
guide, flow charts, and mathematical models is done via ReStructuredText (rst).
The files can be found in the folder */tespy/doc*. For further information on
restructured text see: https://docutils.sourceforge.io/rst.html.

Commit message:

Add docs build and dev installation instructions

docs/developing_tespy.rst, after:

.. _developing_tespy_label:

Developing TESPy
================

TESPy has been developed mainly by Francesco Witte at the university of applied
sciences Flensburg. We hope that many people can make use of this project and
that it will be a community driven project in the future, as users might demand
special components or flexible implementations of characteristics, custom
equations, basically what ever you can think of.

We want to invite you to join the developing process and share your ideas. Your
solutions may help other users as well. Contributing to the development of
TESPy may help other people and it improves the quality of your code as it will
be reviewed by other developers.

The easiest way of joining the developing process is by improving the
documentation. If you spot mistakes or think, the documentation could be more
precise or clear in some sections, feel free to fix it and create a pull
request on the github repository.

Another simple first step is to program your own custom subsystems and share
them in the community. For a good start just look into our tutorial
:ref:`How do I create custom subsystems <tespy_subsystems_label>`.

A third, highly appreciated way for you to contribute is the provision of new
and/or improved equations, maybe even whole characteristics for single
components, such as compressor maps, characteristics for turbine efficiency or
heat transfer coefficients etc..

You will find the most important information concerning the development process
in the following sections. If you have any further questions feel free to
contact us, we are looking forward to hearing
from you!

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:
    :backlinks: top

Install the developer version
-----------------------------

It is recommenden to use
`virtual environments <https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html>`_ for
the development process. Fork the repository and clone your forked tespy github
repository and install development requirements with pip.

.. code:: bash

	git clone https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/tespy.git
    cd tespy
    pip install -e .[dev]

In order to stay in sync with the oemof/tespy base repository, add the link to
the oemof/tespy repository as remote to your local copy of tespy. We will call
the link "upstream". Fetch branches available and after that, you can pull
changes from a specific branch of the oemof/tespy repository (branch "dev" in
the example below).

.. code:: bash

   git remote add upstream https://github.com/oemof/tespy.git
   git fetch upstream
   git pull upstream dev --rebase

Use the :code:`--rebase` comand to avoid merge commits fo every upstream pull.
If you want to make changes to tespy, checkout a new branch from your local dev
branch. Make your changes, commit them and create a PR on the oemof/tespy dev
branch.

Your contribution
-----------------

There are different ways you can contribute

Contribute to the documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you come across typos or grammatical mistakes or want to improve
comprehensibility of the documentation, make your adjustments or suggestions
and create a pull request for the dev branch. We appreciate your contribution!

Improve or add new equations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The components equations represent the behavior of each component. Are we
missing any equations? Or do you see possibilities to improve the formulation?
Add them to your code and create a pull request on the dev branch.

Share your subsystems
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You have encountered component groups that are frequently required? Create a
subsystem to simplify your own work and share your subsystem by adding it to
the tespy.components.subsystems file.

For both, **the equations and the subsystems**, please provide the docstring
and maybe inline comments, if you want to make the code more comprehensible. In
general, your code should fit to the :ref:`style_guidlines_label`, a complete
documentation is only required, if the code will be added to TESPy permanently.

Add component characteristics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The component characteristics represent large added value for your calculation.
If you have detailed information on components offdesign behavior - even for
specific cases - it will improve the results. Every user can benefit from this
knowlegde and thus we are very happy to discuss about the implementation of new
characteristics.

Collaboration with pull requests
--------------------------------

To collaborate use the pull request functionality of github as described here:
https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/

How to create a pull request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Fork the oemof repository to your own github account.
* Change, add or remove code.
* Commit your changes.
* Create a pull request and describe what you will do and why. Please use the
  pull request template we offer. It will be shown to you when you click on
  "New pull request".
* Wait for approval.

.. _coding_requirements_label:

Generally the following steps are required when changing, adding or removing code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Read the :ref:`style_guidlines_label` and :ref:`naming_conventions_label` and
  follow them
* Add new tests according to what you have done
* Add/change the documentation (new feature, API changes ...)
* Add a What's New entry and your name to the list of contributors
* Check if all :ref:`tests_label` still work.

.. _tests_label:

Tests
-----

The tests in TESPy are split up in two different parts:

* doc-tests (also used as examples for classes and methods/functions)
* software tests (defined in the tests folder).

The tests contain code examples that expect a certain outcome. If the outcome
is as expected a test will pass, if the outcome is different, the test will
fail. You can run the tests locally by navigating into your local github clone.
The command :code:`check` tests PEP guidelines, the command :code:`docs`
tests building the documentation, and the command :code:`py3X` runs the
software tests in the selected Python version.

.. code:: bash

    python -m tox -e docs
    python -m tox -e check
    python -m tox -e py36
    python -m tox -e py37
    python -m tox -e py38

If you want to have a look at the documentation build on your local machine use
the following command from the local tespy clone:

.. code:: bash

    python -m sphinx docs/ path/to/html_output

Additionally, all tests will run automatically when you push changes to a
branch that has a pull request opened.

If you have further questions regarding the tests, we are looking forward to
your inquiry.

.. _style_guidlines_label:

Issue-Management
----------------

A good way for communication with the developer group are issues. If you
find a bug, want to contribute an enhancement or have a question on a specific
problem in development you want to discuss, please create an issue:

* describing your point accurately
* using the list of category tags
* addressing other developers

If you want to address other developers you can use @name-of-developer, or
use e.g. @tespy to address a team. `Here <https://github.com/orgs/oemof/teams>`_
you can find an overview over existing teams on different subjects and their members.

Look at the existing issues to get an idea on the usage of issues.

Style guidelines
----------------

We mostly follow standard guidelines instead of developing own rules. So if
anything is not defined in this section, search for a
`PEP rule <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/>`_ and follow it.

Docstrings
^^^^^^^^^^

We decided to use the style of the numpydoc docstrings. See the following
link for an
`example <https://github.com/numpy/numpy/blob/master/doc/example.py>`_.


Code commenting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Code comments are block and inline comments in the source code. They can help
to understand he code and should be utilized "as much as necessary, as little
as possible". When writing comments follow the
`PEP 0008 style guide <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#comments>`_.


PEP8 (Python Style Guide)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* We adhere to `PEP8 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`_ for any code
  produced in the framework.

* We use pylint to check your code. Pylint is integrated in many IDEs and
  Editors. `Check here <https://pylint.pycqa.org/en/latest/>`_ or ask the
  maintainer of your IDE or Editor

* Some IDEs have pep8 checkers, which are very helpful, especially for python
  beginners.

.. _naming_conventions_label:

Naming Conventions
------------------

* We use plural in the code for modules if there is possibly more than one
  child class (e.g. :code:`import heat_exchangers` AND NOT
  :code:`import heat_exchanger`). If there are arrays in the code that contain
  multiple elements they have to be named in plural.

* Please, follow the naming conventions of
  `pylint <http://pylint-messages.wikidot.com/messages:c0103>`_

* Use talking names

  * Variables/Objects: Name it after the data they describe
    (power\_line, wind\_speed)
  * Functions/Method: Name it after what they do: **use verbs**
    (get\_wind\_speed, set\_parameter)


Using git
---------

Branching model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

So far we adhere mostly to the git branching model by
`Vincent Driessen <https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/>`_.

Differences are:

* instead of the name ``origin/develop`` we call the branch ``origin/dev``.
* feature branches are named like ``features/*``
* release branches are named like ``releases/*``

Commit message
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use this nice little `commit tutorial <https://commit.style/>`_ to
learn how to write a nice commit message.


Documentation
----------------

The general implementation-independent documentation such as installation
guide, flow charts, and mathematical models is done via ReStructuredText (rst).
The files can be found in the folder */tespy/doc*. For further information on
restructured text see: https://docutils.sourceforge.io/rst.html.
