docs/support.rst, before:

.. _tespy_community_label:

#####################
Community and Support
#####################

If you need assistance or support there are several ways to get in touch:

User forum
==========
We have implemented a
`discussion room on GitHub <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/discussions>`__ as
user forum. If you have issues with setting up your model or any other question
about using the software, you are invited to start a discussion there.

Monthly online meeting
======================
There is a monthly online meeting for all TESPy users and developers. You are
invited to join us on **every 3rd Monday of a month at 17:00 CE(S)T** for a
casual get together. The intent of this meeting is to establish a more active
and well connected network of TESPy users and developers. You can bring your
challenges, questions and ideas and we will discuss them together or plan
potential follow-up meetings.

If you are interested, you can simply join the meeting at
https://meet.jit.si/tespy_user_meeting. We are looking forward to seeing you!

Support
=======
If you need support on a frequent basis, e.g. to implement custom models,
integrate tespy models in toolchains or build applications based on tespy, you
can contact
`me directly <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/blob/dev/pyproject.toml#L31>`__.

Commit message:

Add a hint towards the announcement banner

docs/support.rst, after:

.. _tespy_community_label:

#####################
Community and Support
#####################

If you need assistance or support there are several ways to get in touch:

User forum
==========
We have implemented a
`discussion room on GitHub <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/discussions>`__ as
user forum. If you have issues with setting up your model or any other question
about using the software, you are invited to start a discussion there.

Monthly online meeting
======================
There is a monthly online meeting for all TESPy users and developers. You are
invited to join us on **every 3rd Monday of a month at 17:00 CE(S)T** for a
casual get together. The intent of this meeting is to establish a more active
and well connected network of TESPy users and developers. You can bring your
challenges, questions and ideas and we will discuss them together or plan
potential follow-up meetings.

If you are interested, you can simply join the meeting at
https://meet.jit.si/tespy_user_meeting. We are looking forward to seeing you!

.. attention::

    Please also check the announcement banner at the top of the documentation
    pages, you will get updates on rescheduled date/time.

Support
=======
If you need support on a frequent basis, e.g. to implement custom models,
integrate tespy models in toolchains or build applications based on tespy, you
can contact
`me directly <https://github.com/oemof/tespy/blob/dev/pyproject.toml#L31>`__.
