docs/tutorials.rst, before:

.. _tespy_tutorial_label:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Advanced Tutorials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We provide tutorials for you to better understand how to work
with TESPy. You will learn how to create basic models and get the idea of
designing a plant and simulating the offdesign behavior in the heat pump
tutorial. Furthermore, the starting values tutorial will help you to get a
stable simulation and faster solutions. On top of that, we created a tutorial
for the usage of the combustion chamber: It is an important component for
thermal power plants while being a source for many errors in the calculation.

The last tutorial is a plant design optimization tutorial. A thermal power
plant with two extraction stages is optimized in regard of thermal efficiency
with respect to the extraction pressure levels.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :glob:
    :hidden:

    tutorials/heat_pump_steps.rst
    tutorials/starting_values.rst
    tutorials/combustion_chamber.rst
    tutorials/pygmo_optimization.rst
    tutorials/heat_pump_exergy.rst

Commit message:

Add more strucutre to clausius rankine section

docs/tutorials.rst, after:

.. _tespy_tutorial_label:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Advanced Tutorials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We provide more advanced tutorials for you to better understand how to work
with more complex systems in TESPy.

At the example of different heat pump topologies, you will learn to

- create a more complex model *step by step* and get the idea of designing a
  plant and calculating the offdesign behavior.
- set up a code structure, which allows you to generate stable starting values
  flexibly, helping you to make faster analyses.
- use the inbuilt exergy analysis method in a simple geothermal heat pump
  setting.

Furthermore, we introduce the coupling of TESPy with pygmo in order to create
an optimization problem, which optimizes thermal efficiency of a clausius
rankine power plant.

- CGAM!

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :glob:
    :hidden:

    tutorials/heat_pump_steps.rst
    tutorials/starting_values.rst
    tutorials/heat_pump_exergy.rst
    tutorials/pygmo_optimization.rst
    tutorials/combustion_chamber.rst
